OIST Graduate University
Policies, Rules and Procedures
Authority: Approved by the President

Chapter 0. ABOUT THE POLICIES, RULES &
PROCEDURES LIBRARY
0.1 Overview
Policies are broad statements of principle that provide context and support for
the attitudes and conduct expected of the Okinawa Institute of Science and
Technology School Corporation (hereinafter referred to as “School
Corporation”) community. From policies flow “rules,” which state what is
encouraged, permitted, or forbidden. From rules flow procedures, the stepby-step instructions that implement the rules.
The Polices, Rules and Procedures (PRP) Chapters found in this PRP Library
provide the framework and directions for working and conducting other
transactions within School Corporation. The Library contains the
administrative and operating requirements of the University, as well as the
Faculty Handbook, the Graduate School Handbook, and the University
Library. Responsibility for maintaining the PRP Library is vested in the Chief
Operating Officer (hereinafter referred to as “COO”) [link: 2.4.6.2], which
oversees development of new and revised chapters and maintains the website,
assisted by the Rules and Procedures Section [link: o.2].
Each PRP chapter is intended to help faculty, students and staff (and in some
cases, visitors, vendors and others) with policy guidance and rules, as well as
clear “how to” instructions for accessing School Corporation services and
complying with School Corporation requirements.
Because many of the policies, rules, and procedures in the Library have
general applicability, this online PRP Library is accessible to the community
outside School Corporation. Visitors, guests, vendors, and others who may be

1
ch00_about-the-prp-library_en_20180401_cl

intermittently on premises or otherwise involved with School Corporation are
encouraged to review PRP Chapters that may be relevant.
The currently approved Chapters of the PRP Library are online; the prior
versions are removed, deemed outdated and are void and of no effect.
0.1.1 Regulations
Designated University Officers establish regulations and guidelines
(hereinafter referred to as Regulations) on specified matters designated
by PRP among his/her responsibilities and duties. Requirements and
restriction on 0.2.1 and procedures on 0.4.2 shall be followed in the
process of the establishment and maintaining the PRP.
0.2 Maintaining the PRP Library
The COO is responsible for maintaining the Library of Policies, Rules and
Procedures.
Officers and employees follow procedures specified in 0.4.1 when they
establish new or revise some chapters of PRP.
However, the COO shall convene the PRP Review Committee [link:] for review
as necessary before his/her approval in case of significant matters such as
major change of Policies or draft of new Chapters.
In principal, date of enforcement of the proposal for establishment or revision
is set in the Document for Approval Process (kessai). In the case that the date
is not set in the Document for Approval Process (kessai), the proposal come
into force (become effective) in the time final approve is done.
Rules and Procedures Section installs established new or revised PRP online
regularly.
0.2.1 Maintaining the Regulations
Regulations shall be maintained by the department of the
Designated University Officer, who established the Regulations,
include old versions and edit histories.

2
ch00_about-the-prp-library_en_20180401_cl

Officers and employees follow procedures specified in 0.4.2 when
they establish or revise Regulations.
Established new or revised Regulations come into force in the date
which is written and approved by the Document for Approval
Process (kessai). In the case the date is not set in the Document for
Approval Process (kessai), the proposal come into force (become
effective) in the time final approval is done.
The department of the Designated University Officer, inform and
make available those established new or revised Regulations to
School Corporation community by the department’s web site or
other relevant tools.
0.3 Responsibilities
0.3.1 Designated University Officers
The following Designated University Officers are responsible for the
initial review, approval, and informing of establishment new or
revising PRP chapters.
When he/she establish the Regulations on the specified matters
designated by PRP, he/she has the responsibility for maintaining
and informing those.
When he/she establish new or revise any Regulations or PRP which
contain any other Designated University Officer’s assignment,
he/she has responsibility to obtain consent from them by
consultation and discussion with relevant departments.
Chapter
0
1
2
3

Title
About the Policies, Rules and
Procedures Library
Who We Are: Founding and
Governing Principles
Organization and
Governance
Faculty Handbook

Designated University
Officer
COO
President
President
Dean of Faculty Affairs

3
ch00_about-the-prp-library_en_20180401_cl

Chapter

Title

4

Research Conduct

5

Graduate School Handbook

Dean of the Graduate
School

6

University Library

Dean of Faculty Affairs

7
8

Fundraising
Internal Audit

President
COO

9

Auditors’ Audit

Auditors

10

Land, Buildings and
Facilities

Vice President for
Buildings and Facilities
Management

12

Document and Record
Management

COO

13

Safety, Health and
Environmental Protection

14

Intellectual Property and
Technology Transfer

15
16
17
18

Name Use, Endorsements,
and Use of University Logos
and Trademarks
External and Internal
Communications and Public
Relations
Information Technology and
Security
Telecommunications
Services and Devices

Designated University
Officer
Dean of Research

Dean of Research
Vice President for
Buildings and Facilities
Management
Executive Vice President
for Technology
Development and
Innovation
Vice President for
Communication and
Public Relations
Vice President for
Communication and
Public Relations
Chief Information Officer
Chief Information Officer

19

University Events

Vice President for
Communication and
Public Relations

20

Health and Wellness
Program

Dean of Research

21

Use of University Resources

22

Avoiding Conflicts of Interest
and Commitment

Vice President for
Buildings and Facilities
Management
Vice President for
Communication and
Public Relations
COO and Dean of Faculty
Affairs

4
ch00_about-the-prp-library_en_20180401_cl

Chapter

Title

23

Misconduct and
Whistleblower Protection

24

Child Care Services

25

Campus Housing

26

Finance and Accounting

27

Budget Planning, Execution,
and Monitoring

28

Procurement

29

Travel, Meetings and Related
Expenses

30

Human Resources

31

Hiring Process

32

Work Schedules and Breaks

33

Leave

34

Compensation

35

Benefits

36

Performance Evaluation

37

Leaving the University

38

Discipline

39

Resolving Complaints and
Disputes

40

Staff Development and

Designated University
Officer
COO
Vice President for Gender
Equality and Human
Resource Development
Vice President for
Buildings and Facilities
Management
Vice President for
Financial Management
Vice President for
Financial Management
Vice President for
Financial Management
Vice President for
Financial Management
Vice President for Gender
Equality and Human
Resource Development
Vice President for Gender
Equality and Human
Resource Development
Vice President for Gender
Equality and Human
Resource Development
Vice President for Gender
Equality and Human
Resource Development
Vice President for Gender
Equality and Human
Resource Development
Vice President for Gender
Equality and Human
Resource Development
Vice President for Gender
Equality and Human
Resource Development
Vice President for Gender
Equality and Human
Resource Development
Vice President for Gender
Equality and Human
Resource Development
Vice President for Gender
Equality and Human
Resource Development
Vice President for Gender

5
ch00_about-the-prp-library_en_20180401_cl

Chapter

Title
Awards

41

0.3.2

Workplace Health and Safety

Designated University
Officer
Equality and Human
Resource Development
Vice President for Gender
Equality and Human
Resource Development

Any employee who are proposing to establish a new, or revise PRP
chapter prepares a draft conforming to the PRP format and other
requirements in 0.4.1 and ask to check to the relevant Designated
University Officer. The draft agreed by the Designated University
Officers shall be reviewed by Rules and Procedures Section and shall
obtain approvals from required officers and employees by
Documented Approval Process (kessai).

0.3.3 Any employee who are proposing to establish new or revise
Regulations prepares a draft and the Document for the Approval
Process (kessai) by following the procedures in 0.4.2, and

shall

obtain approvals from relevant Designated University Officer(s) and
COO.
0.3.4 Rules and Procedures Section reviews drafts of PRP and
Regulations for conformance with Laws, Bylaws, University Rules,
other PRP chapters and Regulations, and checked technical details
such as PRP chapter format and for spelling errors, typographical
errors.
0.3.4.1 Rules and Procedures Section installs the established new or
chapter that have been approved by the CEO/President in the
appropriate section of the online Policies, Rules and Procedures
Library immediately.
0.3.4.2 Rules and Procedures Section informs changes of PRP to
School Corporation community by way of using internal websites
or other relevant tools.
6
ch00_about-the-prp-library_en_20180401_cl

0.3.4.3 Rules and Procedures Section maintains files of Unit-Specific
Internal Procedures and Processes [link: 0.4.2] that have been
approved and will make them available on an internal website
restricted to University employees.
0.3.4.4 Rules and Procedures Section sends an email notification of
the change(s) to the OIST Graduate University Community on or
several days in advance of the effective date.
0.3.5 The COO provides a review for content/substance for each draft of
established new or revised PRP chapter or Regulation submitted as a
Document for Approval Process (Kessai).
0.3.6 The CEO/President reviews and gives final approval to a draft of
established new or revised PRP chapters submitted as a Document
for Approval Process (Kessai).
0.4 Procedures
0.4.1 Procedures to establish new or revised PRP Chapter
0.4.1.1 Read “How to Write a PRP Chapter” [link:] for guidance on
drafting to establish new chapter or to revise any PRP chapter.
0.4.1.2 Any employee who is proposing to establish a new or revise
PRP chapter, prepares a draft and submits that to relevant
Designated University Officer[Link.0.3.1], and obtains
agreement from him/her. The Designated University Officer
consults and discusses with other department(s) and obtains
consent on the draft, in the case that the establishment or
revision contains other Designated University Officer’s
assignment.

7
ch00_about-the-prp-library_en_20180401_cl

0.4.1.3 Any employee who is proposing to establish a new or revise
PRP chapter, submits the draft, which is admitted by the
Designated University Officer(s), to the Rules and Procedures
Section, and modifies the draft as necessary responding to the
review.
0.4.1.4 Any employee who is proposing to establish a new or revise
PRP chapter, creates the Document for Approval Process
(kessai) attached the draft admitted by the Designated
University Officer(s) and Rules and Procedures Section, and
obtains approvals from the COO, and any other relevant
department’s heads.
0.4.1.5 Any employee who is proposing to establish a new or revise
PRP chapter, informs establishment and revisions of PRP
chapter under the instruction of the Designated University
Officer.
0.4.2 Procedures to establish new or to revise the Regulation
0.4.2.1 Any employee who is proposing to establish a new or revise
the Regulations, prepares and submits the draft to the
Designated University Officer, who are in charge of the
department responsible for the assignment relevant to the
Regulations, and obtains consent from him/her. The Designated
University Officer consults and discusses with the other
department and obtains consent on the draft, in the case that the
establishment or revision contains other Designated University
Officer’s assignment.
0.4.2.2 Any officers and employees who is proposing to establish a
new or revise the Regulation, submits the draft, which is
admitted by the Designated University Officer(s), to the Rules
and Procedures Section, and modifies the draft as necessary
responding to the review.
8
ch00_about-the-prp-library_en_20180401_cl

0.4.2.3 Any officers and employees who is proposing to establish a
new or revise the Regulation, creates the Document for Approval
Process (kessai) attached the draft admitted by the Designated
University Officer(s) and the Rules and Procedures Section, and
obtains approvals from the Designated University Officer, COO,
and any other relevant department’s heads.
0.4.2.4 Any officers and employees who are proposing to establish a
new or revise the Regulation, informs establishment and
revisions under the instruction of the Designated University
Officer.
0.4.3 PRP Review Committee
0.4.3.1 School Corporation set the PRP Review Committee to review
and approve PRP changes ,and ensure the consistency as a
whole, and maintain the mission and policies of School
Corporation.
0.4.3.2 Details of PRP Review Committee is specified separately by
the COO [link;].
0.5 Contacts
0.5.1 Owner:
COO
0.5.2 Other Contacts:
Rules and Procedures Section rules@oist.jp

***

9
ch00_about-the-prp-library_en_20180401_cl

The University reserves the right to augment, revise, add and delete Policies,
Rules and Procedures Chapters at any time.
***

10
ch00_about-the-prp-library_en_20180401_cl

OIST Graduate University
Policies, Rules & Procedures

Authority:



Approved by the President
OIST School Corporation Act

Chapter 1. WHO WE ARE:
Founding and Governing Principles

1.1
FOUNDING OF THE OIST GRADUATE UNIVERSITY
The Okinawa Institute of Science and Technology Promotion Corporation
(OIST PC) was established on September 1, 2005, pursuant to the
Independent Administrative Institution Okinawa Institute of Science and
Technology Promotion Corporation Act (Act No. 26 of 2005), in order to
prepare the way for an international graduate university (the University)
dedicated to science and technology. Following the successful establishment
and operation of OIST PC, the OIST School Corporation Act (Act No. 76 of
2009) was enacted to provide the institutional basis for the University and to
establish a framework for transitioning from a research institute to a fully
functioning graduate university.
The express objectives of the OIST School Corporation (OIST SC) are to
conduct outstanding international research and education in science and
technology, and by this means to:
~contribute to the sustainable development of Okinawa; and
~to advance science and technology in Japan and the rest of the world.
1.1.1 OBJECTIVES OF THE OIST GRADUATE UNIVERSITY
The founding documents established five central concepts to guide the
University:
Best in the World - Be a leading center for education and
research, which requires a culture where creativity, uniqueness, and
diversity are encouraged.
International – Aim that more than half of the faculty and
students will be non-Japanese and that English, as the international
language of science and technology, will be the University’s official
language.
Flexible – Encourage innovation, creativity, and adaptability
(academically and administratively), accommodate new initiatives,
establish an interdisciplinary academic structure, and treat every
student as a unique individual.
Global Networking – Increase research and education
opportunities and enhance the visibility of the University through
1
ch01_who-we-are_20151028_jp_cl

hosting, attending at and participating in international meetings,
conferences, workshops, collaborations, and the like.
Collaboration with Industry – Recognize that the research
outcomes generated by the University’s research in science and
technology may be developed and applied by industry for the benefit of
society in general as well as to facilitate sustainable development of
Okinawa and the competitiveness of Japan.
1.1.2 SCHOOL CORPORATION & UNIVERSITY
MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE
In keeping with the mandate of the OIST School Corporation Act, OIST
SC and the University present a unified management structure:
The ultimate authority and responsibility for the management
and operation of the OIST SC is vested in its Board of Governors (BOG).
The BOG selects a Chief Executive Officer (CEO) for OIST SC, and the
CEO also serves as the President of the University. The BOG entrusts
the day-to-day management of the University to the President.
Additionally, the BOG appoints the Senior Level Executive, who is also
the Vice-CEO.
The President, in consultation with the BOG, establishes a
management structure for the University, a structure which is to be an
efficient and effective vehicle for operating a distinguished
international graduate university and which will ensure transparency
and accountability in its administrative and fiscal operations.

1.2

MISSION STATEMENT

The University shall conduct internationally outstanding education and
research in science and technology, and thus contribute to the sustainable
development of Okinawa, and promote and sustain the advancement of
science and technology in Japan and throughout the world.

1.3

CORE VALUES

Integrity, honesty, fairness, respect for others, and dedication to the OIST
mission are the values that inform the activities and behaviors of individuals
working for, or asserting an affiliation with, the University. The University
promotes diversity and provides equal opportunities for all community
members without regard for race, color, religion, national origin, ancestry,
physical or mental disability, medical condition, marital status, gender, sexual
orientation, or age.
2
ch01_who-we-are_20151028_jp_cl

In addition, the University operates within the principles established by the
following policies:
1.3.1

OPENNESS IN RESEARCH

The University’s central functions of teaching, learning, researching,
and publishing depend upon an atmosphere in which freedom of
inquiry, thought, expression, scholarship and peaceable assembly are
given full protection and support. Therefore, it is University policy that
expression of the widest range of viewpoints is to be encouraged within
the University.
In order to support the open and free exchange of ideas, the University
as a matter of policy also encourages participation in the research
enterprise by a diverse body of highly qualified individuals. Except in
extraordinary circumstances as determined by the President [link:
2.4.1], participation in University research by otherwise qualified
individuals will not be limited by citizenship, nationality, or
ethnicity. Similarly, participants in University research shall not be
denied access - based on citizenship, nationality, or ethnicity - to the
intellectually significant portions of their research.
Additionally, because the University’s research is intended for
dissemination within the interested scientific community and
throughout the world, only time-limited publication and disclosure
restrictions based on contractual and/or legal obligations, such as those
required for purposes of peer review and patentability review, may be
imposed on the research.

1.3.2

RESPECTFUL WORKPLACE

OIST Graduate University Respectful Workplace Policy
The University is committed to providing a work environment that
promotes education, research, and productivity through working
relationships based on respectful communication. This commitment
calls for a workplace where the following core values are upheld:
1. Everyone at OIST without exception has an important
contribution to make toward the overall success of the
University’s mission.
2. This mission will be carried out in an atmosphere where all
employees, in all types of jobs, value each other and treat each
3
ch01_who-we-are_20151028_jp_cl

other with respect. Communication between employees should
be polite at all times. This will be true even in situations of high
pressure and urgency.
3. Diversity among employees is celebrated at OIST and employees
must at all times exercise tolerance and respect for cultural,
gender, ethnic and other differences. Special consideration
should be given to those employees with physical or mental
impairment.
4. Managers, supervisors and others in positions of authority
should consider themselves as role models in the promotion of
these core values, without in any way abdicating their
responsibility to direct their employees to perform work
effectively.
5. In the same spirit, employees, irrespective of their job title, are
encouraged to discuss issues of concern without fear that those
discussions will result in negative treatment or punitive
consequences from any other employee of the University.
6. To promote mutual understanding and avoid unnecessary
conflicts, an atmosphere where native English speakers are
considerate of non-native speakers, and vice versa, is expected
so that no language-related barrier restricts employees from
participating in discussions or in asking questions.
7. In response to staff input, the University will make reasonable
changes to improve the work environment and productivity at
OIST.
1.3.3

COMMITMENT TO STUDENTS

The University’s PhD program is at the heart of the University, and its
participants are selected from the very best science and technology
graduate students in the world. The University is committed to their
success, both while in the thesis program and beyond. During their
graduate training at the University, each student will work closely with
world-class faculty pursuing unique, highly individualized programs of
study in modern well-equipped laboratories.
The University’s
international composition and interdisciplinary approach has been
expressly designed to spark exploration, creativity, discussion and
innovation, in order to assure that our students will advance the cutting
edge of research in science and technology. By providing excellent
conditions for thesis research (including good practical support for
living and thriving in Okinawa), the University advances the goals of its
4
ch01_who-we-are_20151028_jp_cl

students and encourages them to become tomorrow’s leaders.

1.4

UNIVERSITY CODE OF CONDUCT

The Code of Conduct (Code) is a statement of our shared and mutual
commitment to upholding ethical, professional and legal standards in
conducting our lives and making decisions within the University community.
The University values integrity, honesty, fairness, diversity, respect for others,
and equality of opportunity; it strives to assure that no activity of the
University undermines fundamental principles of human dignity.
As
members of the University community, all faculty, staff, students, University
officers, members of the Board of Governors, and all University affiliates and
volunteers are responsible for maintaining and demonstrating these values
and for observing the ethical standards of both the University and the broader
community in which it operates. The values contained in this Code of Conduct
must be integral elements of the University’s educational, research and
business practices. Each of us also must be cognizant of, and comply with, the
relevant external policies, standards, laws and regulations that pertain to our
activities.

1.4.1
APPLICABILITY
The University’s Code applies to the following members of the University
community:
~ Those who are paid by the University when they are working for
the University, including faculty, staff, researchers and students;
~ Those doing business with the University, such as consultants,
vendors, and contractors;
~ Those who perform services for the University as volunteers; and
~ Those who assert an association with the University (such as
alumni).
1.4.2
BUSINESS TRANSACTIONS & OTHER ACTIVITIES
Members of the community must transact University business in
compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and University policies,
rules, and procedures. Business transactions and other activities within
the University may not always be subject to specific laws, regulations, or
codes of ethics. In these instances, our core values will govern. The fact
that a particular business or other practice is common, customary, or
expedient will not justify its use at the University if that practice conflicts
with the core values of the University or any other the requirements of
the Code.
5
ch01_who-we-are_20151028_jp_cl

1.4.3
PROTECTION OF INFORMATION
Community members receive and generate on behalf of the University
various types of confidential, proprietary, and private information. It is
imperative that each member of the University community understands
and complies with Japanese law concerning access to and disclosure of
various types of information. In addition, each member of the University
community must comply with disclosure/nondisclosure agreements with
third parties, and with University policies, rules and procedures [link:
12] pertaining to the use, protection and disclosure of such information.
Be aware that, in some cases, these rules and procedures may continue
to apply even after a person’s relationship with the University has ended.
1.4.4
CONFLICT OF INTEREST/CONFLICT OF
COMMITMENT
Members of the University community who serve as faculty or staff owe
their primary professional allegiance to the University and its mission.
Outside professional activities, private financial interests, or the receipt
of benefits from third parties can cause an actual or perceived divergence
between an individual’s private interests and the duty of allegiance to the
University.
To help prevent such a potential conflict of interest or commitment
(including the appearance of a conflict) from arising, faculty and staff
who have other professional or financial interests shall disclose them in
compliance with applicable conflict of interest/conflict of commitment
policies and procedures set out in the Policies, Rules and Procedures
Library at Chapter 22, Avoiding Conflicts of Interest & Commitment.
[link: 22].

6
ch01_who-we-are_20151028_jp_cl

OIST Graduate University
Policies, Rules and Procedures
Authority:
 Approved by the President
 OIST School Corporation Act
 Private School Act
 School Education Act

Chapter 2. Governance and Organization
2.1 Official University Name
In accordance with Chapter II, Article 4, of the Bylaws of the Okinawa Institute
of Science and Technology School Corporation (“the Corporation” or “SC”), the
name of this graduate educational institution is
Okinawa Institute of Science & Technology Graduate University
(sometimes referred to as “OIST Graduate University” or “the University”).
All its academic activities shall be transacted, and all written academic
instruments must be executed, in this official university name by its authorized
officers and agents and authenticated, when necessary, by affixing the seal
bearing the name Okinawa Institute of Science & Technology Graduate
University [link: 2.7]. All business agreements, contracts, and other legally
binding transactions required for OIST Graduate University must be executed
in the official corporate name of the Okinawa Institute of Science and
Technology School Corporation.
2.1.1 OIST School Corporation and OIST Graduate University,
through the Board of Governors, reserve to themselves
authority to approve:
2.1.1.1 Use, and revocation of the use, of the official corporate or
university name or any abbreviated name by any non-University
person or entity as part of its name or in any other manner that
indicates or implies an authorized relationship with the University.
2.1.1.2 Removal of the official university name or any abbreviated
name from the name of any organizational unit of the University.
2.1.1.3 Use of the official corporate or university name in a manner
other than that prescribed in administrative policy.
2.1.2. Gifts, Bequests, Donations or Devises [link: 7].
1
ch02_governance-organization_en_20180401_cl

All gifts, bequests, contributions, donations and devises made in trust or
otherwise in the name of the University or any abbreviated name, or in the
name of any unit of the University, shall be transfers to the Okinawa
Institute of Science & Technology School Corporation. The Okinawa
Institute of Science & Technology School Corporation has the authority to
manage all transfers intended for the corporation.
2.1.3 University Marks [link: 15]. The University shall maintain a
consistent visual identity system, including name, marks, and logos, that
(a) reinforces and protects the University’s identity; (b) distinguishes the
University from other institutions; and (c) reflects the University’s
traditions and heritage.
2.1.3.1 The President or delegate shall maintain administrative
policies and procedures to implement this policy.
2.2 Board of Governors
The ultimate authority and responsibility for the management and operation of
the OIST School Corporation lies with the Board of Governors (“BOG”). The
BOG appoints a President for the OIST Graduate University. The President of
the University serves as the CEO of the Corporation, pursuant to the SC Bylaws.
The BOG appoints the Senior Level Executive who serves as the Vice-CEO of
the Corporation, in accordance with the SC Bylaws. [link:
https://groups.oist.jp/sites/default/files/imce/u113/oistsc_bylaws.pdf]. The
SC Bylaws and the Rules for the Operation of the Board of Governors [link: ]
specify the purpose and activities of, and topics to be decided by the BOG. In
general, the matters to be decided by the BOG concern management and
operation of the School Corporation and the University. In particular, the BOG
is required each fiscal year to review and approve the annual budget and
business plan for the Corporation, which will have been prepared by the
CEO/President, Vice-CEO, Executive Vice President for Technology
Development and Innovation, Provost, Chief Operating Officer (COO), and
Vice-Presidents in consultation with University faculty and staff. In all of its
endeavors, the subjects to be deliberated may be accompanied by
reports/opinions of the Board of Councilors.
2.2.1
The Board of Governors has an Office of the BOG. Secretary to the BOG
acts as the Secretariat and works for the Chair of the BOG with the
responsibilities for preparing agendas and papers for meetings, serving
sub-Committees created by the BOG, managing the affairs of the BOG,
and coordinating the activities with the Senior Level Executives and
Faculty Council.

2
ch02_governance-organization_en_20180401_cl

2.3
Board of Councilors.
The Board of Councilors (“BOC”) must prepare opinions on specified matters
(such as budgets, borrowing, disposal of assets, donations, changes to the
Bylaws) and submit them to the Corporation CEO before meetings of the BOG
to make decisions on the matters. The BOC also responds to inquiries from
Governors, provides opinions to Governors, and solicits reports from
Governors, regarding the state of the School Corporation’s operations and
assets.

2.4 Roles and Responsibilities
The ultimate authority and responsibility for the management and operation of
the OIST School Corporation (SC) lies with the Board of Governors (BOG).
2.4.1 President/CEO
The Board of Governors selects a President for the OIST Graduate
University; the President also serves as the Chief Executive Officer (CEO)
for the School Corporation. The President, in consultation with the BOG,
establishes a management structure for the University. That structure
must effectively and efficiently facilitate the development, maintenance,
operation, and growth of a renowned international graduate university
that promotes outstanding achievement in science and technology
through education and research and contributes to the self-sustaining
development of Okinawa. The management structure must also ensure
administrative and fiscal accountability and provide transparent oversight
regarding use of government and private funds.
The BOG entrusts the day-to-day operations of the School Corporation
and the Graduate University to the CEO/President, including
- management of the University and all its departments, operation of the
physical plant, and administration of the University’s business activities;
- preparation of annual University operating and other budgets, which
must be submitted to the BOG for review and subsequent action; and
- preparation and submission of periodic plans and reports to the BOG
on the status of plans and projections and various other reports as
needed.
One Senior Level Executive who is appointed by BOG; by the provision of
the SC Bylaws, also serves as the Vice-CEO of the School Corporation. The
President may appoint, and prescribe the powers and duties of, other
officers and employees that the President may deem appropriate to assist
in the performance of Presidential duties and responsibilities.
The President is further responsible, directly or by delegation, for
3
ch02_governance-organization_en_20180401_cl

establishing and maintaining administrative policies and procedures to
assure the carrying out of these responsibilities.
2.4.1.1 Special Advisor to the President
The Special Advisor to the President offers opinions and advice in
regard to the administration of the University upon the President’s
request.
2.4.1.2 General Counsel
The General Counsel provides legal opinions and advice in regard to
the
University’s
policies/business,
risk
managements,
conflicts/disputes cases and contracts related matters and
represents the University in legal matters concerning external
entities.
2.4.1.3 Chief Information Officer (CIO)
The Chief Information Officer (CIO) is responsible for [link: 17.4.7]
promoting coherence and efficiency through university wide
information technology (IT) strategy, and information security
programs. The CIO is also responsible for conducing special
programs or information related initiatives at the discretion of the
President.
2.4.1.4 Chief Compliance Officer (CCO)
The Chief Compliance Officer (CCO) conducts the audit based on the
annual audit plan or on a temporary basis. The CCO reports those
results to the CEO/President.
2.4.2 Vice-CEO
The President nominates, and the Board of Governors appoints, the
Senior Level Executive who also serves as the Vice-CEO of the School
Corporation.
The Vice-CEO shall support the duties of the CEO or perform the duties of
the CEO by proxy in the event that he/she is indisposed or absent. For
long-term incapacity or absence of the CEO, the Board of Governors may
appoint an Acting CEO from the Governors in accordance with Paragraph
2 of the Article 13 of SC Bylaws.
2.4.3 The Executive Vice President for Technology Development
and Innovation
The Executive Vice President for Technology Development and
Innovation administers the functions that support the University mission
to further the self sustaining development of Okinawa. Key elements of
4
ch02_governance-organization_en_20180401_cl

this mission are management of intellectual property, technology transfer
and business development.
2.4.3.1 Associate Vice President for Technology
Development and Innovation
The Executive Vice President for Technology Development and
Innovation may have the Associate Vice President for Technology
Development and Innovation conduct the duties in part.
2.4.4 Auditors
Auditors of the School Corporation (SC) are nominated by the BOG from
among individuals who are not Governors, not employees of the
University and not Councilors; the BOC must concur in the nomination,
and the CEO must appoint the Auditors. The appointment becomes
effective only upon approval by the Prime Minister. Auditors are
responsible for auditing SC operations and asset condition, and for
reporting on these matters to the BOG and the BOC following the close of
each fiscal year. Auditors attend BOG meetings and express opinions on
the SC’s operations and asset condition. If, as a result of their audits,
Auditors discover violations of bylaws or illicit activities concerning the
SC’s operations or assets, they must report these discoveries to the BOG,
among others.
2.4.5 Vice Presidents
The following university officers serve as Vice Presidents (including
Deans) of the University as represented in the University Organization
Chart in 2.5 below. Each Vice President is assigned an annual budget, with
full authority to administer the budget for which they are held responsible
by the President.
2.4.5.1 Dean of the Graduate School
The Dean of the Graduate School (DGS) is responsible for providing
services and programs that support the full cycle of attending the
Graduate School at OIST Graduate University. Thus the Dean of the
Graduate School is responsible for all elements of planning and
support that start with admission and end with graduation and the
initial post-graduate placement. The Dean of the Graduate School is
responsible for all aspects of the graduate school curriculum
including the assignment of faculty to teach the graduate courses.
2.4.5.1.1 Vice Dean of the Graduate School
The DGS may delegate duties to Vice Dean.
2.4.5.2 Dean of Faculty Affairs
5
ch02_governance-organization_en_20180401_cl

The Dean of Faculty Affairs (DFA) is responsible for administration
of general matters concerning the faculty as described in detail in
the Faculty Handbook [link: PRP Chapter 3], including:
Faculty search and appointments
Administration of research unit reviews, tenure reviews, and
promotion of the Faculty
Management of leaves of absence, sabbatical leaves, and
salary setting of the Faculty
Appointment of non-faculty researchers
Appointment and evaluation of Research Unit Technicians
and Research Unit Administrators
Administrative support for the operation of the Faculty
Assembly and the Faculty Council
Maintenance of Faculty Handbook (PRP Chapter 3) and
related Handbooks
Faculty Development
Career development of non-faculty researchers
Appointments and administrative support for Dean’s
Research Group
The Dean of Faculty Affairs is also responsible for the operation of
the University Library and Institutional Repository, the
appointments and development of postdoctoral careers, and the
appointments and administrative support for the Science and
Technology Group(STG).
2.4.5.2.1 Vice Dean of Faculty Affairs
The DFA may have the Vice Dean of Faculty Affairs conduct the
duties in part.
2.4.5.3 <Delete>
2.4.5.4 Vice President for Financial Management
The Vice President for Financial Management (VPF) is responsible
for all aspects of the University budgets and the accounting against
such budgets. The VPF is responsible for procurement, which
includes tenders, routine procurements and internal supply lines.
2.4.5.5 Vice President for Buildings and Facilities
Management
The Vice President for Buildings and Facilities Management
(VPBFM) is responsible for all aspects of new construction, from the
planning through procurement, to contract management, to physical
constructions and completion of the facility. The VPBFM is
6
ch02_governance-organization_en_20180401_cl

responsible for all aspects of building, facility and site maintenance,
including modifications made to University buildings.
2.4.5.6 Vice President for Communication and Public
Relations
The Vice President for Communication and Public Relations
(VPCPR) is responsible for public relations in its broadest sense, be
it interactions with local, Okinawan, national, or global communities.
The VPCPR is responsible for all aspects of media and press. The
VPCPR is responsible for the logistics of University events, including
workshops, symposia, colloquia, celebrations, and public events.
2.4.5.6.1 Associate Vice President for Communication
and Public Relations
The VPCPR may have the Associate Vice President for
Communication and Public Relations (AVPCPR) conduct the
duties in part.
2.4.5.7 Dean of Research
The Dean of Research is responsible for the direct research funding
(subsidy, grant, donor and other) that is administered by the
individual research units and other research entities, Research
Support Services with Core facilities, Research Safety, Grant
applications and management (excluding the grants managed by
the Executive Vice President) and overall research support
functions required for research activities. The Dean of Research is
also responsible for OIST Clinic and Health Center.
2.4.5.7.1 Assistant Dean for Administration
The Dean of Research may have the Assistant Dean for
Administration conduct the duties in part.
2.4.5.8 Vice President for Gender Equality and Human
Resource Development
The Vice President for Gender Equality and Human Resource
Development (VPGEHR) is responsible for overall management of
Employee Relations, Diversity and Welfare, Training and
Education, HR Management and HR Recruiting Support, to
enhance productivity of the diverse workforce and to improve
work-life balance at OIST.
2.4.5.8.1 Associate Vice President for Human Resources
The VPGEHR may have The Associate Vice President for Human
Resources (AVPHR) conduct the duties in part.

7
ch02_governance-organization_en_20180401_cl

2.4.5.9 Vice President for Information Technology
The Vice President for Information Technology (VPIT) is
responsible for ensuring that IT services are appropriately
architected, implemented and maintained. The VPIT is responsible
for ensuring IT remains engaged with all areas of the University,
and that IT services are developed to support the programs and
policies set by the CIO.
2.4.6 Provost and Chief Operating Officer (COO)
2.4.6.1 Provost
The Provost is in charge of interdepartmental coordination between
the Dean of Graduate School, the Dean of Faculty Affairs and the
Dean of Research in terms of academic affairs.
The Provost shall represent the University for academic and research
matters and develop a network with other universities and research
institutions.
2.4.6.2 Chief Operating Officer (COO)
The Chief Operating Officer (COO) shall assist the President and
serve as the final authority on all administrative matters. COO
oversees all administrative functions, including financial
management, human resources, facility management, information
technology. COO is also responsible for health & safety, and risk
management.
2.4.6.2.1 Associate Vice President for Administrative
Compliance
The COO may have the Associate Vice President for
Administrative Compliance (AVPAC) conduct the duties in part of
governmental relations, rules and procedures, compliance, and
risk management.
2.4.7 Committees
The University may rely upon committees, standing and ad hoc, internal
and external, whenever needed to assist in the carrying out of various
functions or to provide advice regarding selected topics. Whatever their
purpose, such committees must conform to the University’s “Terms of
Reference” [link: “Terms of Reference” at end of Chapter] regarding
formation, composition and organization of committees.
Details
concerning the payment of honoraria and other expenses for external
committee members may be found in Chapter 26, Finance & Accounting,
Appendices [link: 26.9].

8
ch02_governance-organization_en_20180401_cl

2.5 Organization Chart

2.5.1 Detailed Charts
The CEO/President, the Vice-CEO, Executive Vice President for
Technology Development and Innovation, Provost, COO and the Vice
Presidents are responsible for developing more detailed organization
charts for those units that they head. Those detailed organization charts
[link] shall be approved by the CEO/President and internally published
with a description regarding responsibilities and duties of each
group/section/units.
2.5.2 Reorganization of the Structure
When the organization of OIST is to be restructured, the proposal of the
new structure shall be approved with kessai by the CEO/President 14 days
prior to the effective date.

2.6 CEO/President’s Delegation of Authority
As authorized by the Board of Governors, the President/CEO may delegate
executive management and administrative authority to the University's Senior
Level Executives. The CEO/President's delegations of authority authorize the
Senior Level Executives to act on behalf of the Corporation/University in the
name of the CEO/President and to bind the Corporation/University within the
scope of the delegated authority to a legally enforceable obligation. The
CEO/President may condition, limit, or revoke any authorities so delegated at
9
ch02_governance-organization_en_20180401_cl

any time. Authority reserved by the CEO/President may not be exercised by
any other person.
Delegation of authority does not permit those so privileged to violate spending
or signature thresholds established by the CEO/President for fiscal and
administrative control.
2.6.1 Sub-Delegations of the CEO/President's Authority.
Senior Executives who have authorities delegated to them by the
CEO/President may, but need not, sub-delegate authorities to
employees who report to them and so on throughout the organization.
The Senior Executives are ultimately responsible and accountable for the
proper sub-delegation of the CEO/President's authorities throughout
their units, in accordance with this policy. For purposes of this Chapter,
the person who delegates authority to others is a “Delegating Official”
and the person who receives a delegation of authority is a “Delegate.”
2.6.2 Responsibilities of Delegates
2.6.2.1 Delegates may further delegate any delegated authority if
it is not expressly disallowed or limited in any way. However,
unless further delegation is required, delegates may reserve to
themselves any authority delegated to them.
2.6.2.2 Delegates below the level of Vice President must obtain
approval from the Delegating Official in order to sub-delegate any
authority delegated to them.
2.6.2.3 Delegates may not delegate greater responsibility and
decision-making authority than they have been delegated, and
may not delegate authority to anyone who has an individual or
institutional conflict of interest related to that authority, as
defined by University policy [link: 22].
2.6.2.4 Employees with delegated authority must act only within
the scope of that delegation. Employees who act outside the scope
of their authority and do not have documented authority to do so
may be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including
termination.
2.6.2.5 Delegates remain responsible and accountable at all times
for the exercise of any authority they choose to sub-delegate to
others.

10
ch02_governance-organization_en_20180401_cl

2.6.3 Requirements for Delegation
2.6.3.1 Delegated authority must be granted and exercised
consistent with the terms and conditions of the original
delegation and with all applicable laws and University policies.
2.6.3.2 Delegating Officials must delegate authority only to
persons who are current University employees, who have some
level of responsibility for the activity being conducted, who are
knowledgeable about University policies, rules, laws, regulations
and procedures, and over whom the Delegating Official has
management authority. All delegations become null and void
upon the last date of employment.
2.6.3.3 Delegating Officials must provide copies of their
delegations of authority (new or revised) to the COO and to the
General Counsel.
2.6.3.4 For annual budget authority, a delegation of authority is
deemed complete once the budget is allocated on the ERP system.
Any other delegation of authority must be made in writing.
2.6.3.5 Delegating Officials must retain documentation of all of
their delegations, and review those delegations at least annually,
via the performance evaluation process, to ensure they are up-todate and appropriate. This documentation must be made
available upon request.
2.6.4. Ambiguities involving Delegations of Authority. In the
event that there is an ambiguity or an inconsistency involving delegation
assignments, the CEO/President or his/her delegate will determine who
has the ultimate authority.
2.7 Use & Management of Seals
2.7.1 Official Seals – The Official Seals are the seals to signify
authenticity of contracts, agreements, and other official documents of the
Corporation or the University by affixing their seal impressions, and their
use is limited to that purpose. Typical examples include the official seals
of;
 OIST School Corporation
 CEO of OIST School Corporation
 OIST Graduate University
 President of OIST Graduate University
In addition, official seals for internal organizations or their heads may be
11
ch02_governance-organization_en_20180401_cl

developed as necessary.
2.7.2 Production and Custody – Any of University/Corporation’s
official seal shall be produced by the COO and registered in a registry
(Official Seal Registry) developed and maintained by the COO. The seals
are in the custody of the COO or the officials that are registered in the
Official Seal Registry with an approval of the COO. Any official seals shall
be kept with utmost care in accordance with the guidelines [link] developed
by the COO.
2.7.3 Use of Seals – Official seals shall be affixed by an employee
registered in the registry only after carefully confirming the documents are
authorized by the President/CEO or the authorized delegate.
2.7.3.1 Copy of Seal Impression – With a prior approval by the COO,
the impression of official seals may be copied or electronically
inserted, when issuing standardized documents, such as ID cards
and certifications or issuing a large number of documents with the
same contents.
2.7.3.2 Signatures – When making a document written only in
English and used in business transactions, such as making contracts
or agreements, with entities outside of Japan, a signature may be
used to verify the authenticity of the document in substitution for
official seals.

12
ch02_governance-organization_en_20180401_cl

OIST Graduate University
Policies, Rules & Procedures
Authority:
 Approved by the President
 School Education Act

Chapter 3. Faculty Handbook
3.1 Policy
The OIST Graduate University Faculty Handbook describes policies governing
the faculty, including teaching, research, appointments, promotion, and
governance. The Dean for Faculty Affairs is responsible for implementation of
University policy regarding appointments and promotions, salary setting,
sabbaticals, grievances, and other general matters concerning the faculty. The
Dean for Faculty Affairs ensures compliance with policies set by the Board of
Governors and Faculty Council, maintains the Faculty Handbook and faculty
records, works with OIST Graduate University (the “University”) officers and
committees to develop new policy, and responds to external reporting
requests.
3.2 Faculty Assignment
3.2.1 Composition of Faculty
Consistent with the principles outlined in the section on the
“Purpose and Necessity of Establishment,” the University will work
toward “best in the world” status by appointing outstanding faculty
members. The aim of being “international” will be supported by
ensuring that at least half of the faculty members are from outside
Japan, and by attracting faculty members with strongly international
experience and perspective. The overall ratio of faculty to students
will be about 1:3.
All faculty members will be expected to teach in English.
Faculty will be expected to maintain a program of excellent research
and publication, to participate in the teaching program of the
Graduate University, to supervise graduate research projects, and to
assume appropriate responsibilities in the University academic
community. The full-time faculty will be composed of Professors,
Associate Professors and Assistant Professors, all of whom have
independent research programs, teach in the Graduate University,
and supervise doctoral research.
In addition to the full-time faculty members, the faculty will include
Adjunct, Visiting, and Distinguished Professors. Adjunct Professors
will generally have external appointments in other universities, but
will have laboratory resources at the University and will spend
significant amounts of time (up to 50% full-time equivalent) at the
University. Adjunct Professors will contribute by directing or
1
ch03_faculty-handbook_en_20180309_cl

assisting in teaching University courses, contributing to University
international workshops, and participating in research. Adjunct
faculty members will not be primary Thesis Supervisors but may
serve on Thesis Committees.
Visiting Professors and Sabbatical Visitors (link to Procedure for
Applying for a Sabbatical Visitor) will have external appointments in
other universities. They will not have independent laboratory
resources at the University, but will spend significant time at OIST.
Visiting Professors will contribute by directing or assisting in
teaching University courses, contributing to University international
workshops, and participating in collaborative research. Visiting
faculty members will not be primary Thesis Supervisors but may
serve on Thesis Committees.
Distinguished Professors are internationally recognized researchers
who hold or have held senior professorial positions in other
Universities or institutions, or who have been awarded a
Distinguished Professorial Fellowship allowing them to continue
research as head of a research unit. In the latter case, the academic
title will be Distinguished Professor (Fellow). These are fixed-term
appointments for up to five years, and may be renewed.
Distinguished Professors may attend meetings of the Faculty
Assembly as non-voting members. Distinguished Professors provide
an opportunity for students to be exposed to a wide range of
perspectives and topics. Distinguished Professors contribute to
teaching of University courses in accordance with expectations of
full-time faculty, contribute to Academic Mentoring of PhD students,
student recruitment and admissions, examinations, co-supervise
students and serve on academic committees. Distinguished
Professors shall not, in general, be the principal supervisor of PhD
thesis students but exceptionally may continue to supervise students
if special justification exists, such as students who have already
completed their preliminary thesis research with the Professor, or
students who require specialist knowledge that would not be
available otherwise. Distinguished Professors with research
laboratories may host rotation students, but in general may not host
Special Research Students.
Distinguished Professorial Fellowships may be offered to those who
have held a Professorial position at OIST (including Adjuncts) for at
least 5 years, who have reached the age of retirement (i.e. are 70 or
over) and whose most recent External Review classed their research
as “Outstanding” or “Excellent” and endorsed their future program as
being at least “Excellent”.
3.2.2 Faculty Teaching Assignment
The University is dedicated to excellence in research and education.
Access to opportunities to develop and coordinate a course is
important for the professional development of faculty members
because scholarship and teaching are the primary factors in
2
ch03_faculty-handbook_en_20180309_cl

evaluation for promotion and tenure. While the quality of teaching is
paramount an evenly distributed teaching load is also important to
ensure that all staff can achieve and demonstrate excellence in a
sufficient amount of teaching and that individual staff members do
not carry excessive teaching loads.
The Dean of the Graduate School will assign faculty members to be
Course Coordinators, and determine which faculty members
contribute to each course. The Course Coordinators will be
responsible for overseeing the content, teaching, and examination
requirements of the course. Faculty will be expected to have a deep
knowledge of the area covered by the syllabus of the courses they
coordinate.
Guidelines for teaching assignment
1. All full-time faculty members are expected to teach one approved
graduate course per year (two credits per year). If faculty members
share teaching of a course their point contribution can be
calculated pro rata. For example, the two credits could be achieved
by co-teaching two courses, or teaching two courses of one credit.
2. The teaching expectation of adjunct faculty members is
proportional to their time commitment to the University. For
example, an adjunct faculty member with 50% commitment to the
University is expected to contribute one-credit.
3. The credit loading may be amortized over two years provided the
overall teaching commitment of the University in any given year is
realized.
4. Faculty members are encouraged to go beyond minimum
requirements for educational reasons and faculty may use
additional time to teach a course if they so wish, provided that this
can be accommodated in the student timetable. However, teaching
longer in a course does not contribute additional credits.
5. We have a commitment and an obligation to MEXT to deliver
teaching by accredited faculty members. Abdication of teaching
responsibilities is viewed seriously. The opportunity to enhance
teaching by participation of visiting professors is recognized but
certain guidelines apply.
Substitute teachers may not be used to deliver the faculty
commitment, except under the sabbatical leave regulations. Guest
lectures by visiting faculty are welcome but require prior approval
by the Dean of the Graduate School, based on confirmation that the
teaching content and methods will fulfill the course objectives.
Applications must be submitted at least one month prior to the
scheduled teaching on form [link: TBD].

3
ch03_faculty-handbook_en_20180309_cl

6. With the agreement of the Deans of the Graduate School and
Faculty Affairs, non-faculty researchers (Postdoctoral Scholars,
Staff Scientists, Research Specialists and Science and Technology
Associates) [link: ] may contribute to courses under the supervision
of a faculty member. Non-faculty researchers may not be the
principal supervisor of graduate students, but may assist in
supervising their research assignments. If such members of the
research staff are engaged in teaching, it should be connected with
their project and enhance their academic development, and be
recorded by the graduate school. In such cases it is expected that
the University faculty member is present for the scheduled teaching
hours to provide mentoring and quality control; this should not be
used to replace faculty in teaching. Measures of performance of
non-faculty researchers may include the contribution to teaching.
Non faculty members wishing to teach should consult the relevant
section of the Graduate School Handbook [link: ].
7. Other teaching and administrative responsibilities do not offset the
baseline faculty teaching expectation. Other teaching
responsibilities include service as Academic Mentors, on
Committees including the Admissions Committee [link: 5.13.1] and
the Curriculum and Examinations Committee [link:], supervision
of PhD Thesis Research, Supervision of Rotations, and Supervision
of Research Interns etc.
3.2.3 Research Units
The Research Unit is the administrative entity for managing faculty
research at the University. All full-time faculty members including
Assistant Professors will be independent heads of Research Units.
The non-hierarchical organization of the faculty and the absence of
departmental structure will encourage interaction between Research
Units and sharing of space, equipment, and expertise, which will
promote interdisciplinary research activities. Research Units may
appoint Staff Scientists, Research Specialists or Technicians [link:]
as fixed term employees. For continuing appointments, the Unit
Head may make a proposal to the Continuing Staff Appointments
Committee [link to CSAC-14-N001-V1.3]. Staff Scientists and
Research Specialists may be nominated as Group Leaders.
Postdoctoral Scholars are always fixed term employees.
Administrative personnel will be appointed according to the
administrative needs of the Research Units, and may be shared
between different Research Units. Faculty members have a high level
of responsibility when employing fixed term research staff to ensure
that their training and career development needs are taken into
account.
3.2.4 Recruitment, Appointment, Promotion, Evaluation and
Retirement of Faculty
Faculty members of the University are selected based on the highest
international standards of evaluation of candidates to ensure the
recruitment of the best available faculty. The procedures are
4
ch03_faculty-handbook_en_20180309_cl

described in the Search Committee Handbook, the Tenure Review
Evaluation Committee Handbook, the Promotion Review Evaluation
Committee Handbook and the External Review Committee
Handbook.
3.2.4.1
Strategies for Recruiting the Best Available Faculty
The University will recruit faculty through open competition and
strict review with the highest academic and research standards,
expressly including external evaluation. To attract world-class
researchers, the University will need to provide an excellent
research environment. An important consideration is internal
funding. Funding is provided for each Research Unit based on a
five-year approved budget plan, adjusted annually to conform to
the actual budget and changes that may have occurred in the
Unit. Faculty members also will be encouraged to seek external
funding. To attract world-class researchers, the University will
offer salaries, travel expenses, and other benefits that are
competitive with top universities in other countries.
3.2.4.2 Age and Gender Distribution of the Research and
Teaching Staff
The University’s recruiting policies will aim for a balance in the
age distribution of the University faculty. This will ensure that
both new researchers and more established researchers will be
represented among the faculty. The University is an equal
opportunity employer and is committed to increasing the
diversity of its faculty. The University welcomes nominations of
and applications from women and members of
underrepresented groups, as well as others who would bring
additional dimensions to the University’s research, teaching and
commercial development missions.
3.2.4.3 Appointment and Promotion
The University will use standard tiered ranks of appointment
enabling smooth transfer of personnel between institutions and
enhancing recruitment at appropriate levels to maintain worldbest standards of faculty teaching and research. This will consist
of a tenure-track system comprising Assistant Professors,
Associate Professors and Professors. Appointments may be
made at any of these levels. Tenure carries with it a commitment
of employment until retirement. However, it does not guarantee
internal research support. Tenured faculty will compete along
with their fellow tenured and non-tenured faculty colleagues for
internal research funding on a 5-year cycle.
Assistant Professor is an untenured position. A tenure evaluation
is conducted in year six, with a Tenure Evaluation Start Date
(TESD) of the last day of the 6th month of year six. The Tenure
Evaluation Start Date is the deadline for receiving the materials
from the candidate. The TESD cannot normally be delayed
except for the specific reasons detailed in the TREC
5
ch03_faculty-handbook_en_20180309_cl

Handbook. If the outcome of the tenure review is positive, an
Assistant Professor is promoted to Associate Professor and
awarded tenure. "If the outcome of the tenure evaluation is
negative, the contract of the Assistant Professor is terminated at
the end of their contract period, or one year from the notice date,
whichever is the later. Under exceptional circumstances, an
Assistant Professor who has had a negative tenure outcome can
be reviewed for promotion to Associate Professor without
tenure.
Initial appointment to Associate Professor in general is with
tenure, but can be made without tenure. Associate Professor
appointed with tenure will be reviewed for promotion to
Professor during the 4th year after appointment. Early review
will be permitted in exceptional circumstances.
Normally the position of Professor denotes tenure, although
there may be some situations where this is not the case, such as
when the individual is beyond the retirement age or is appointed
as Distinguished Professor.
a) Process of Determining Rank and Tenure Status
at Appointment or by Promotion
Appointments and Promotions follow a rigorous process of
evaluation, recommendation and review.
For an appointment, the evaluation and recommendation
phase is carried out by a Search Committee.
For a promotion and tenure, the evaluation and
recommendation phase is carried out by an Evaluation
Committee. (Promotion Review Evaluation Committee and
Tenure Review Evaluation Committee).
These committees are made up of members of the Faculty
Assembly and may include external members as detailed in
the corresponding TREC Handbook. These are nonstanding committees that are established independently for
each individual action. In both search and evaluation,
substantial input from external reviewer is required and
the external reviewer input carries the most weight with
regard to the final evaluation. The recommendation of the
Search Committee or the Evaluation Committee will be
reviewed by the President and in the case of positive
recommendation, Final decision shall be made by the
Board of Governors.
b) Confidentiality of Appointment and Promotion
Proceedings
The entire appointment and promotion proceedings
require discussion of specific individuals, and the opinions
6
ch03_faculty-handbook_en_20180309_cl

of others regarding those individuals. This and other
relevant information must be held in strict confidence by
all participants. The University commits to extensive
measures to protect the privacy of the candidates by
preserving the confidentiality of the information it receives
regarding the candidates.
c) New Appointments: Structure and Membership
of the Search Committee
The Search Committee is responsible for gathering data on
scholarship, teaching, and other relevant matters. The
Search Committee will comprise three to five members of
the Faculty Assembly with a senior faculty member serving
as chair. Search Committees may include external
members, but the Chair should be from the Assembly.
Members of the Senior Level Executives should not normally be
members of Search Committees.

A member of the Search Committee will be assigned the
responsibility of insuring that the diversity standards for
the search are met.
d) Criteria for Appointment
Both scholarship and teaching are important prerequisites
for faculty appointments because the University is
dedicated to excellence in both. The purpose of the
appointment evaluation of the candidate is to appraise, on
the basis of the record to date, the standing and potential in
the relevant scholarly discipline, broadly defined, and the
quality of teaching and mentoring.
All applications will require three letters from reviewers of
the candidate's choice. For candidates considered for
possible appointment, the Search Committee will solicit
additional external reference letters. Letters from external
reviewers are essential for an objective process and, in
general, carry more weight than internal letters. At least 4
letters from external reviewers are required for
appointment at the non-tenured level. At least 8 letters
from external reviewers are required for tenure
appointments. The majority of the external reviewers
should neither be close collaborators of the candidate nor
have served as mentors of the candidate. When soliciting
the opinion of internal or external reviewers, the Search
Committee should use the sample letters of request from
the Search Committee Handbook.
The first criterion for an appointment is that the
individual's scholarship and research ranks among the top
5-10 percent in their world-wide cohort at his or her level of
professional development for the proposed appointment
7
ch03_faculty-handbook_en_20180309_cl

level. Letters from reviewers should support this
assessment in an unequivocal fashion.
The second criterion for appointment is a record of high
quality teaching that clearly establishes that the candidate
can plan and sustain a quality teaching program. Given that
some candidates (especially for appointment to the
assistant professor rank) may not yet have had an
opportunity to teach extensively, the Search Committee
must assess whether the candidate has the potential to be a
quality instructor at the University. Teaching is broadly
defined to include the classroom or laboratory, advising,
mentoring, program building, and curriculum
development. If available, evidence and testimonials of the
teaching record should be included in the file.
The outcome of the Search Committee will be a file
containing the Appointment Papers and a cover letter from
the Chair submitted to the President through the Dean for
Faculty Affairs.
When a Search Committee process results in a positive
recommendation, there will be two levels of review that are
required in order to achieve ratification. Taken in order
they are:
1) Review by the President.
2) If this review is positive the file, accompanied by a
letter from the President, goes to the Board of Governors
for final approval.
e) Promotion: Structure and Membership of the
Evaluation Committee
The Promotion Review Evaluation Committee (PREC) [link
to Promotion Review Evaluation Committee Handbook]
has the responsibility for gathering data on scholarship,
teaching, service and other relevant matters. The PREC will
comprise three to five members of the Faculty Assembly
with a senior faculty member serving as chair. the PREC
may include external advisors, but the Chair should be
from the Faculty Assembly.
Members of the PREC should have no collaborative or
mentoring relationship with the candidate, although this
may sometimes be unavoidable or preferable to other
alternatives. Any mentoring or collaborative relationship
between the candidate and either a review committee
member or a reviewer should be clearly disclosed in the
cover letter from the Chair.

8
ch03_faculty-handbook_en_20180309_cl

Letters from external reviewers are essential for an
objective evaluation process and, in general, carry more
weight than internal letters. At least 6 letters from external
reviewers are required. The majority of the external
reviewers should neither be close collaborators of the
candidate nor have served as mentors of the candidate.
When soliciting the opinion of external reviewers, the
PREC should draft the letter requesting the evaluation
based on the template in the Promotion Review Evaluation
Committee Handbook.
A member of the committee should be assigned the
responsibility of insuring that the diversity standards for
the evaluation are met.
f) Tenure
Review Evaluation Procedures
Scholarship and teaching are the primary factors in
evaluation for tenure because the University is dedicated to
excellence in research and education. Service to the
University and/or the community is also a relevant
consideration. Scholarly distinction is especially important
because it sustains both the University's research and
teaching mission, which derives its strength from the
ongoing involvement of the instructors in research at the
forefront of a field. The purpose of the tenure evaluation is
to appraise, on the basis of the record to date, the standing
and potential in the relevant scholarly discipline, quality of
teaching and mentoring, and quality and relevance of
service.
The Tenure Review Evaluation Committee (TREC) [link to
Tenure Review Evaluation Committee Handbook Version
2.4] has the responsibility for gathering data on
scholarship, teaching, service and other relevant matters.
The Dean of Faculty Affairs will appoint the TREC
members after discussion of potential membership and
possible external advisors with the candidate. The TREC
will comprise three to five members of the Faculty
Assembly with a chair nominated by Dean of Faculty
Affairs. The TREC may enlist an external advisor to assist
with identifying suitable reviewer or alternatively may
include an external member to assist in assessing the case
for tenure, with full membership of the TREC and voting
rights.
Letters from external reviewers are essential for an
objective evaluation. At least 8 letters from external
reviewers are required. The external reviewers should
neither be close collaborators of the candidate nor have
9
ch03_faculty-handbook_en_20180309_cl

served as mentors of the candidate. When soliciting the
opinion of external reviewers, the TREC should draft the
letter requesting the evaluation based on the template in
the Tenure Review Evaluation Committee Handbook.
The first criterion for a tenure appointment is that the
candidate has achieved the highest level of distinction in
scholarship and research that places them within the top
echelon of their international peer group. The peer group
comprises world-wide scholars that are at the same level of
academic maturity who work in research areas that are
similar or closely allied to that of the candidate. Letters
from reviewers should support this assessment in an
unequivocal fashion.
The second criterion for a tenure appointment is a record
of high quality teaching that clearly establishes that the
candidate can plan and sustain a first-rate teaching
program. Teaching is broadly defined to include the
classroom or laboratory, advising, mentoring, program
building, and curriculum development. A letter from the
Dean of the Graduate School is required to document and
evaluate the teaching, rotation supervision and mentoring
roles..
In some cases, service to the University can be relevant to
the tenure decision. But service, however exemplary,
cannot substitute for major shortcomings in scholarship or
teaching.
The outcome of the TREC will be a file containing the
Tenure Review Papers and a cover letter from the Chair of
the TREC, submitted to the President through the Dean for
Faculty Affairs.
The positive recommendation of the TREC will proceed
through two levels of review. Taken in order they are:
1) Review by the President
2) If the President agree with the recommendation by
TREC, the file, accompanied by a letter from the President,
goes to the Board of Governors for final approval.
In the case of a negative recommendation of the TREC,
agreed by the President, the candidate will be informed of
the outcome. The outcome will also be reported to the
Board of Governors, which may occur before or after
informing the candidate.
For an Assistant Professor, the award of tenure
automatically involves promotion to Associate Professor.
10
ch03_faculty-handbook_en_20180309_cl

For an Associate Professor, TREC may solicit from the
reviewers an opinion on whether to promote to Professor
and on the basis of the responses may make such a
recommendation.
In the case of a negative decision for tenure, the
appointment will terminate as in the contract, or after a
year if the remaining time on the contract is less than a
year. The candidate should work with the Dean of Research
and the Dean of Faculty Affairs to ensure an orderly
transition, including making proper provision for the
timely completion of any theses that are in progress, for
redeployment of any continuing staff and for the
completion of the contracts for the fixed-term staff and
post-doctoral scholars.
g) OIST “Stop-the-Clock” Policy for TenureTrack Faculty
Tenure track faculty may request an extension of their
contract and postponement of their tenure evaluation to
accommodate parental responsibilities relating to the birth,
adoption of a child or rearing of a baby. This policy is
referred to as “Stop-the-Clock”.
All full time tenure track faculty responsible for the care of
a new born or newly adopted child in the family are eligible.
One further extension may be requested to accommodate
the birth or adoption of a second child. Faculty cannot
apply to stop the clock twice in the case of a multiple birth
(e.g., twins).
The form requesting an extension is available at [Link].
Upon receipt of a written request to the Dean for Faculty
Affairs to “Stop the Clock”, the following actions will
be taken.
1. The tenure review date will be postponed by one year.
2. The contract end date of the candidate will be extended
by one year.
3. The Unit funding will be extended by one year.
4. The contracts of unit staff will not be automatically
extended.
This policy is independent of maternity, parental or
childcare leave. An extension of the tenure evaluation
period does not alter the candidate’s normal duties (i.e.,
teaching, supervision).
A candidate who wishes to extend the tenure evaluation
period to accommodate the addition of a child to the family
11
ch03_faculty-handbook_en_20180309_cl

shall complete the form and submit it to the Office of the
Dean for Faculty Affairs. The application to “Stop-theClock” must be submitted before the tenure review
process begins (i.e., due date for submission of materials
for tenure review).
In cases where there are extenuating circumstances (e.g.
multiple births, difficult pregnancy, premature birth or
medical conditions associated with childbirth), the Dean
for Faculty Affairs may grant an additional 3-6 month
discretionary extension. A request for an additional
discretionary extension must be submitted to the Dean
of Faculty Affairs together with supporting
documentation (e.g. a medical certificate).
h) Appeal Process
The purpose of the appeal process is to determine whether
the tenure review procedures were correctly followed. It is
not a reevaluation of the decision. The grounds for an
appeal are limited to determining whether there were
procedural errors (such as the failure to bring proper facts
and criteria to bear on a decision, or the introduction of
improper facts and criteria, or the failure to follow
procedures
3.2.4.4 Annual Performance Evaluation, Bonuses, and Salary
Advancement
Faculty members will be evaluated for individual performance
on an annual basis. The evaluation will include performance in
teaching, research support activities, and university service.
Based on satisfactory performance, faculty members are eligible
for an annual salary advancement based on OIST budget status
and national guidance for salary increases. Both annual onetime merit bonuses and base salary advancement will be used to
acknowledge exceptional performance. Research performance
of the faculty unit will be evaluated separately.
3.2.4.5 Research Unit Budget and Evaluation
Each full-time and adjunct faculty research unit will receive
multi-year subsidy support based on a proposal reviewed and
approved at the time of hiring for new faculty, or for current
faculty, reviewed and approved at a progress review conducted
by a committee of experts from outside of OIST [link: External
Review Committee Handbook].
3.2.4.6 Conflict of Interest
OIST policies concerning conflicts of interest are described in
PRP Chapter 22. Members of the faculty must declare conflicts
of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest when these
exist. The existence of a conflict of interest is not necessarily a
12
ch03_faculty-handbook_en_20180309_cl

barrier to employment or procurement relationships. However,
special procedures must be followed to ensure the integrity of
interactions with and the fair treatment of students, researchers,
employees, contractors, vendors, and others associated with
faculty in the execution of their duties.
3.3 Retirement
The normal retirement date for faculty members will be at the end of the
academic year in which they reach 70 years of age, or on the date they reach
70, whichever is specified in the contract. Two years prior to retirement,
faculty members should work with the Dean of Research and the Dean of
Faculty Affairs to ensure an orderly transition- i.e., making proper provisions
for staff/postdocs, and other matters. Professors are not permitted to accept
new PhD students and to serve as their primary supervisors after reaching 65.
No external Unit review will be conducted after 65 years.
Faculty members may choose to retire early, after the age of 60, if they have
served the university in a significant capacity for at least 10 years. Early
retirement will be granted at the discretion of the President.
3.3.1

Emeritus Professor
OIST will apply the title Emeritus Professor indefinitely to all fulltime faculty upon retirement, including those who have retired early.
This comes with no salary, but with access to OIST resources and
limited privileges for a period of five years, which may be renewed in
negotiation with the President. Entitlement to emeritus status and
access to OIST resources is conditional upon adherence to Japanese
law and University policies, rules, and procedures. The President
may rescind both emeritus status and access without notice in the
event of a violation.

3.3.2

Continuing employment beyond retirement age
Upon invitation by the President, faculty members may extend their
contracts beyond retirement age, subject to successful external
review. Such cases will be highly unusual.

For continuing employment, faculty members will submit a research
plan with a term of no more than 5 years to the President for
agreement, including a strategy for closing the unit within the term,
and for being substantially financed using external funds. The
President and faculty members will discuss access to space and
equipment with the Dean of Research. If faculty members invited by
the President wish to continue doing research after retirement, they
must undergo an external review with their research plan in the
academic year in which they turn 68 in principle. Faculty members
thus approved after the external review will continue doing research
and carrying teaching and service responsibilities and the title
“Professor” during the agreed term beyond retirement age.

13
ch03_faculty-handbook_en_20180309_cl

This is considered a fixed-term, untenured position and will involve a
significant reduction in unit space and funds. Salary will be
negotiable, but will normally be reduced.
3.3.3 Faculty members serving in executive capacities
Faculty members who have served in executive capacities (i.e. Dean
or Vice President) for a certain period will be allowed additional time
for research after the retirement date, that was negotiated with the
President. This policy will function as an incentive for faculty
members to assume executive functions. Research funds, salaries
and unit space will not be affected during this period, and will
continue as stipulated in their then current contract for the duration
of their additional service.
3.3.4

Non-Faculty Research Appointments
There are five classes of non-Faculty Research Appointments;
Postdoctoral Scholars [link: ], Staff Scientists [link: ], Research
Specialists [link: ], Technicians [link: ] and Science and Technology
Associates [link: ]. Non-faculty research staff may undertake limited
teaching duties as described in 3.2.2 item 6. The definition of each
non-Faculty Research Appointment is stipulated in 4.2 [link: ].

3.4 Management Structure for Academic Issues
The management structure of the University is described in the Chapter 2
[link: ]. The administrative organization responsible for faculty governance
and academic issues will be the Faculty Assembly (the “Assembly”). The
Assembly will have an executive body, the Faculty Council (the “Council”). The
Assembly and Council are described in sections 3.4.1 and 3.4.2, respectively.
The administrative home of the members of the faculty will be the Dean for
Faculty Affairs.
The Dean of Research will lead the Research Support Division; administer
common resources, shared equipment, grants and research computing;
promote good conduct in research and ensure that the research program
conforms to the highest ethical standards; lead appropriate subcommittees of
the Research Support Sections as well as represent OIST as needed in the
areas of safety and other research-related domains; liaise with the Deans for
Faculty Affairs and of the Graduate School.

The Dean of the Graduate School [link: ] will administer the OIST Graduate
School. The position of Dean of the Graduate School will be a rotating position
of the faculty with a three-year term, which is renewable at the discretion of
the President.
The Dean of the Graduate School will manage the academic program,
including the following matters:
• Student recruitment and admissions
• Curriculum and organization of courses
14
ch03_faculty-handbook_en_20180309_cl

Student guidance and supervision
Student career development
Award of degrees and graduation
Enrollment, re-enrollment, withdrawals, transfers, overseas study, leave of
absence
• Appraisals and sanctions of students
• Evaluation of teaching
• Other matters relating to education
•
•
•
•

As necessary, the Dean of the Graduate School will appoint committees that
the Dean of the Graduate School chairs, the Dean of the Graduate School’s
committees, which include faculty members to advise on those matters
requiring academic and educational input. For instance, faculty will staff the
Admissions Committee. To enable changes to the curriculum in a given area,
the Dean of the Graduate School will choose specific people to help in
approving suggested modifications.
A Senior Assistant to the Dean of the Graduate School will administer the
student-related functions including financial aid to students, student housing,
student organization, student activities, student welfare, mentoring and career
development, and student records. The position of Senior Assistant is an
administrative, non-rotating position that will provide continuity in
administration of the Graduate School.
3.4.1 Faculty Assembly
3.4.1.1 Role of the Assembly
The Assembly is a self-governing body of the whole professoriate
that provides the faculty with information about university
matters and serves as a forum for open discussion of University
affairs with the President. The Assembly is advisory to the
President. The Assembly can bring issues that warrant the
attention of the University management directly to the
President. For operational efficiency the Assembly elects a subgroup, called the Council. The Council, under the leadership of
the Chairperson of the Assembly, acts as the executive
committee of the Assembly. The members of the faculty in
addition have administrative duties on various committees.
These functions are services to the University; the President,
Executive Vice President for Technology Development and
Innovation, Dean of the Graduate School, Dean of Faculty
Affairs and Dean of Research make appointments to these
committees.
3.4.1.2 Membership of the Assembly
The membership of the Assembly includes all full-time
Professors, Associate Professors, and Assistant Professors.
Adjunct, Emeritus, Distinguished and Visiting faculty members
may participate in Assembly meetings as non-voting members.
Two student representatives (elected by the students), two
15
ch03_faculty-handbook_en_20180309_cl

researcher representatives (elected by the Postdoctoral Scholars,
Staff Scientists, and Research Specialists through the OIST Researcher
Community and one representative of the Science and
Technology Group (elected by the Science and Technology
Group Forum may participate in the Assembly, with speaking
rights but without voting rights.
The President, Executive Vice President for Technology
Development and Innovation, Dean of the Graduate School,
Dean of Faculty Affairs, and Dean of Research may participate as
ex officio members. The ex-officio members and student and
research representatives attend the Assembly meetings at the
invitation of the Chairperson and may be excused when the
Chairperson deems necessary.
3.4.1.3 Chairperson of the Assembly
The Assembly has a Chairperson. The Chairperson of the
Assembly will be elected by secret ballot of the Assembly.
Elections to the position of Chairperson will take place every two
years. The term of office as Chairperson is two years. For the
election of the Chair of the Faculty Assembly, a call for
nominations will be made on February 1. Candidates will make
their presentations at the Faculty Assembly meeting in March.
The election will be held immediately following the Faculty
Assembly presentations. If the Chair of the Faculty Assembly is
unable to serve, the Faculty Council will appoint an interim
Chair, who will hold elections within two months, to fill the
position until the end of the previous Chair’s term.
The role of the Chairperson is to preside at meetings of the
Assembly. The Chairperson will set the dates of meetings. The
agenda is set by the Chair of the Assembly, but the President,
Executive Vice President for Technology Development and
Innovation, Dean of the Graduate School, Dean of Faculty
Affairs, and Dean of Research should always be consulted and be
invited to the meeting. The Chairperson will represent the
faculty as ex-officio member of OIST administrative committees
as deemed necessary. The Chairperson will communicate the
results of the deliberations of the Assembly and its subsidiary
bodies to the appropriate members of the administration (Board
of Governors, Board of Councilors, President, Executive Vice
President for Technology Development and Innovation, Dean of
the Graduate School, Dean of Faculty Affairs, and Dean of
Research).
3.4.1.4 Frequency of Convocation
The Chairperson will call meetings of the Assembly at least three
times per year.
3.4.1.5 Items to be Discussed at Meetings of the Assembly

16
ch03_faculty-handbook_en_20180309_cl

The Assembly will deliberate on policy matters, strategic
direction and educational philosophy. The Assembly may
consider specific matters as follows:
• Election of the Council
• Enrollment, re-enrollment, withdrawals, transfers, overseas
study, leave of absence
• New research initiatives
• Common resources and space
• Faculty recruitment, promotions, and tenure
• Staff welfare
• Information technology and libraries
• Formation of subcommittees
• Reports on academic matters
• Reports on other committees
• Other matters
The Faculty Assembly shall state its opinion for the admission
and graduation matters and completion of academic programs.
Authority is delegated to the Admissions Committee to select
students for admission to the PhD program. Authority is
delegated to the Curriculum and Examinations Committee to deal
with matters related to the curriculum and individual student progress
in the PhD program, The Admissions Committee and the Curriculum
and Examinations Committee are advisory to the Dean of the Graduate
School, and report to the Assembly through the Dean of the Graduate
School.
3.4.1.6 Procedures and Rules of the Assembly
a) If there is not a majority of the members with voting rights
in attendance, the Faculty Assembly shall not transact its
business.
b) Resolution of the Faculty Assembly shall be passed by a
majority. The Chairperson shall make a decision in case of
tie in votes
c) As deemed necessary by the Chairperson members may
participate in the Faculty Assembly meeting by
teleconference and exercise voting rights. Absent members
may not exercise voting rights.
d) As deemed necessary by the Chairperson people other than
members of the Faculty Assembly may be invited to attend
the meeting.
e) The agenda and minutes of the meetings of the Faculty
Assembly shall be made available to all Faculty Assembly
members.
3.4.2 Faculty Council

17
ch03_faculty-handbook_en_20180309_cl

The Council is the elected executive body of the Assembly and its
role is to provide advice to the President on academic and
administrative matters. The agenda is set by the Chair of the
Council, but the President, The Executive Vice President,
Executive Vice President for Technology Development and
Innovation, Dean of the Graduate School Dean for Faculty
Affairs and Dean of Research should always be consulted and be
invited to the meeting. Other members of the administration can
be invited as need be. These meetings are critical for the healthy
operation of the institution and provide a venue at which the
trust and cooperation between administration and faculty can be
established and maintained. The Assembly devolves the
responsibilities to deliberate on specific matters to the Council.
The membership of the Council includes 8 elected members of
the Assembly (at least two of whom are Assistant Professors)
including the Chair of the Faculty Assembly. Terms of the
members of the Faculty Council and the Chair of the Faculty
Assembly start on September 1. Members are elected for a term
of two years and may serve two consecutive terms. The Assembly
may vote to increase the number of members on the Council
proportionately as the faculty grows but the number may not
exceed 20% of the whole faculty. Following ex-officio members
and the advisor may attend the Council. The composition of
the Council is as follows:
Elected Members
Chair of the Assembly
Seven elected members of the Assembly
Ex Officio Members
President
Executive Vice President for Technology Development and
Innovation
Dean of the Graduate School
Dean for Faculty Affairs
Dean of Research
Secretary to the Assembly
Advisor
Vice President for Financial Management
The Council will meet monthly. Council minutes will be available to
all faculty members.
For the election of the members of the Faculty Council, a call for
nominations will be made on April 15. Candidates will make their
presentations at the Faculty Assembly meeting in June. The election
will be held immediately following the Faculty Assembly
presentations.
3.4.2.1 Procedures and Rules of the Faculty Council
a) A majority of votes is required to pass a resolution in the Faculty
Council. The elected members of the Faculty Council have voting
18
ch03_faculty-handbook_en_20180309_cl

rights. The Ex Officio Members and Advisors do not have voting
rights. If there is not a majority of the members with voting rights
in attendance, the Faculty Council shall not transact its business.
b) The Faculty Council agendas and minutes will be available to all
faculty members.
3.4.3 The Secretariat of the Faculty Assembly and Faculty Council
The Faculty Affairs Office plays the role of the Secretariat of the
Faculty Assembly. A Secretary to the Assembly will work with the
Chair of the Faculty Assembly and act as the Executive Secretary to
the Assembly and to the Council, with the responsibility for
preparing their Agendas, preparing or commissioning the papers for
meetings, serving any sub-Committees created by the Assembly or
Council, and coordinating with the Senior Level Executive [link:
30.2.2.1.1].
3.5 Academic Program Evaluations
3.5.1 Basic Policy
The University will conduct regular assessments of education,
research and results leading to technological developments. This will
entail the review of organizational operation, facilities and
equipment, and the release and dissemination of the research results
and technologies and patents to the public.
3.5.2 Method
Assessment will be conducted regularly, based on the criteria set in
advance, in regards to the goals of the University.
3.5.3 Structure for Assessment and Evaluation
The University will have an ongoing internal procedure of periodic
review and assessment by committees of experts from the best
universities in the world. In addition to this internal assessment, an
external evaluation will be conducted by a third-party evaluation
organization accredited by the government.
3.5.4 Publication and Utilization of the Results
The University will summarize the results of the external evaluation
as a report to the Board of Governors, which has the responsibility
for disseminating the report appropriately. The Board will deliberate
on the results and use them to improve the education, research,
technology impact and management of the University. Such results
will be made publicly available by means of the University’s web site
and other publications.
3.5.5 Major Evaluation Items
Major evaluation items include:
• Purpose of the University
• Research results
19
ch03_faculty-handbook_en_20180309_cl

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Technology impact
Organization for education and research
Faculty and supporting staff
Student admission
The contents and methods of education
Educational performance
Student support
Facilities and equipment
System(s) to improve the quality of education
Finance
Management

3.6 Strategies to Maintain and Improve the Quality of Teaching
Staff
3.6.1 Basic Policy of Educational Development
The University must maintain and improve the quality of its faculty
in order to provide an outstanding education at the University and to
meet the different educational needs of each student. The office of
the Dean of the Graduate School will play an active role in the
development of faculty members by implementing programs for
faculty development in teaching and supervision of graduate
students.
3.6.2 Methods
Specifically, the University will conduct the following:
3.6.2.1 Teaching Guidelines
The Dean of the Graduate School’s office will create, maintain
and distribute guidelines for quality teaching to ensure that
uniform best-practice teaching standards are observed at the
University.
3.6.2.2 Student Teaching Evaluations
Students will evaluate each course with a standardized
questionnaire at the end of the course. The student responses
will be reported to the Dean of the Graduate School’s office and
will be distributed to the instructors and students. The Dean of
the Graduate School’s office will assist the instructors to respond
appropriately to this feedback. This feedback should be treated
as confidentially as possible.
3.6.2.3 Peer Review of Teaching
Faculty members will support the development of their
colleagues by participating from time to time as classroom
observers, with the agreement of the instructor. The date of such
observation will be reported to the Dean of the Graduate
School’s office, and the observer will discuss their observations

20
ch03_faculty-handbook_en_20180309_cl

with the instructor in a collegial, respectful and supportive
manner.
3.6.2.4 Instructor Training
The Dean of the Graduate School’s office will arrange training
sessions, and workshops for faculty development from suitably
qualified facilitators, in order to enhance the teaching ability of
faculty members.
3.6.2.5 Mentoring
A mentoring system will be established so that faculty with less
experience in teaching and thesis supervision can meet with
more experienced faculty to receive advice and support. As a part
of this system the Thesis Committee supervising each student
will include junior and senior faculty members to facilitate the
transfer of skills relating to supervision of research.
The Dean of the Graduate School’s office will implement these
methods to ensure the improvement of the education and research of
the Graduate University.
3.7 Faculty Leave
3.7.1 Holiday Entitlements
Holiday entitlements are defined in PRP Chapter 33 Leave.
3.7.2 Sabbatical Leave
Sabbatical leave offers tenured faculty members opportunities for
study, research, acquisition of new techniques, and enhanced
professional development. Sabbatical leave allows faculty members
to focus on such matters without teaching and administrative duties.
Details are described in the Sabbatical Leave Application Handbook.
Tenured faculty members are eligible to apply for sabbatical leave if
they have served at least six (6) years since joining OIST as full-time
faculty members. The tenure-track period is included as part of the
sabbatical qualifying period so that untenured faculty members can
apply for sabbatical leaves after being awarded tenure. Years from
the OIST Promotion Corporation period are not counted.
For every three (3) years of academic service, tenured faculty
members earn six (6) months of sabbatical credit. The maximum
sabbatical credit that can be accrued is twelve (12) months.
Once eligibility is granted, at least nine (9) months before the start of
the academic year in which sabbatical leave is to commence, the
applicant must submit a “Request for Sabbatical Leave Application
Form” online.
As part of sabbatical leave application process, an agreement
between the host institution and OIST must be prepared. This
agreement must include management of intellectual property that
may result from the sabbatical research, and other pertinent
sabbatical terms and conditions.

21
ch03_faculty-handbook_en_20180309_cl

After submitting the online application form, the applicant must
make necessary arrangements with the Deans of the Graduate School
(DGS) and Faculty Affairs (DFA) to cover teaching, supervision of
students and unit members, and administrative responsibilities
during sabbatical leave.
When arrangements described in Sections 5 and 6in the Handbook
have been approved in principle by the three Deans (DFA, DGS, and
DoR) and if the Executive Vice President for Technology Development
and Innovation and General Counsel validate the Intellectual
Property-related arrangements with the host institution, the three
Deans will sign the Sabbatical Leave Application Form. The
application form will be sent by the Faculty Affairs Office to the
President for final approval.
3.7.3 Leave without Salary
A leave without salary is a period of leave that is without salary from
the University or its disability, retirement, or other benefits
programs.
3.7.3.1 Requesting a Leave without Salary
Leave without salary should be requested on a standard leave
request form for review and approval by the Dean of the
Graduate School and the Dean for Faculty Affairs.
3.7.3.2 Review Criteria for Leave without Salary
In deciding a request for leave without salary, consideration will
be given to the faculty member’s teaching and other academic
responsibilities, scholarly productivity, number of doctoral
theses supervised, previous leaves without salary, and any other
relevant circumstances.
3.7.3.3 Effect of Leave on Term of Appointment
A leave without salary for faculty on fixed-term appointments
extends the term of appointment by a period equal to the
duration of the leave, unless there is advanced written
agreement. This extension is not automatic and must be
requested from and approved by the Dean of the Graduate
School and Dean for Faculty Affairs.
3.7.3.4 Effect of Leave on Term of Research Support
With a leave without salary the period of research support may
be extended by a period up to the duration of the leave. The
total funds committed are not increased. Extension of the
period of research must be approved by the Dean for Faculty
Affairs.
3.7.3.5 Period of Partial Leave without Salary
Periods of partial leave without salary have the same effect on
Term of Appointment and Term of Research Support as
described in 3.7.3.3, and 3.7.3.4, but on a proportional basis.

22
ch03_faculty-handbook_en_20180309_cl

3.7.4 Period of Pure Research Leave
Full-time faculty members may apply for a period of pure research
leave, which is defined as leave from teaching and other institutional
responsibilities during which the faculty member receives full or
partial salary supported by the University.
3.7.4.1 Requesting a Period of Pure Research Leave
Applications for periods of pure research should be requested on
the regular leave form for review and approval by the Dean of
the Graduate School and the Dean for Faculty Affairs.
3.7.4.2 Reviewing a Request for Period of Pure Research Leave
In deciding a period of pure research leave request,
consideration will be given to the faculty member’s teaching and
other contributions to the educational program of the University,
scholarly productivity, number of doctoral theses completed
under his or her supervision, previous leave without salary, and
any other relevant circumstances.
3.7.4.3 Effect of Leave without Salary or Pure Research Leave on
Sabbatical Leave Service Accrual
Sabbatical eligibility does not accrue during periods of leave
without salary or pure research leave.
3.7.5 Family and Medical Leave Policies
The family, medical, childcare and other leave policies for OIST
employees are described in PRP Chapter 33 Leave. [link: 33] In
addition to the standard leave options, faculty can request
adjustments in time or amount of teaching through the Dean of the
Graduate School.
3.8 External Appointment or Employment
Full-time faculty members may accept external visiting or adjunct
appointments or employment in another university, research
organization, or company provided that their educational, research and
other activities in OIST are not affected and that there is no conflict with
OIST PRPs, including intellectual property, research safety, animal care
and use, human subjects or other relevant areas. Prior approval for
external appointment or employment must be obtained from the Dean for
Faculty Affairs in accordance with OIST Rules for External Professional
Activities [link: ]. Such appointments or employment may not exceed 20%
time. There must be disclosure of any financial interests.
3.9 Resolving Complaints and Disputes
Procedures for resolving complaints and disputes are described in PRP
Chapter 39 Resolving Complaints & Disputes. For complaints and
disputes reported by faculty, the supervisor is the Dean for Faculty Affairs.
The next level of management for the Dean for Faculty Affairs is the
CEO/President. For Committee Level Dispute Resolution, the
CEO/President will appoint a Dispute Resolution Committee. For
complaints and disputes reported by employees supervised by faculty, the
23
ch03_faculty-handbook_en_20180309_cl

standard procedures described in Chapter 39 apply. For complaints and
disputes reported by students, the procedures in Chapter 5 Graduate
School Handbook apply.
3.10 Term and Conditions of Appointment
3.10.1 Employment Agreement
The term and conditions of academic appointments are stated in the
Employment Agreement, a copy of which should be in the possession
of both the University and the faculty member. The term of academic
appointments may be either (a) for a fixed number of years for nontenured appointments or (b) without limit of time for tenured
appointments. A tenured academic appointment without limit of
time extends from the effective date of the appointment to the date
of academic retirement of the appointee.
3.10.2 Prior Notice of Non-renewal of Appointment
A faculty member holding a renewable, non-tenured appointment
shall be notified by one year before the end of the term of the
appointment if the appointment is not to be renewed. Failure to give
timely notice of non-renewal shall entitle the individual to an
extension of appointment for a period of one year from the time of
notification.
3.10.3 Prior Notice of Non-renewal of Internal Funding
A tenured or non-tenured faculty member who after review has been
notified that his or her internal funding will not be renewed will be
provided with a negotiated level of funding to allow a scale-down
during the last year of funding. Failure to give timely notice of nonrenewal of internal funding shall entitle the individual to an
extension of the current level of internal funding to the date of
notification and to an extension of the scale-down period to a period
of one year from the time of notification.
3.11 Discipline
Procedures for taking disciplinary action in response to conduct that
violates the OIST PRPs are described in PRP Chapter 38 Discipline, which
covers all OIST employees. For discipline of faculty members the
supervisor is the Dean for Faculty Affairs, and if this cannot be resolved
satisfactorily, the President.

24
ch03_faculty-handbook_en_20180309_cl

OIST Graduate University Policies, Rules & Procedures
Authority: Approved by the Dean of Research and the President

Chapter 4. Research Activities
4.1
Policy
The OIST Graduate University (hereinafter, “University”) promotes research activities that
embody the five central concepts stated in 1.1.1 OBJECTIVES OF THE OIST GRADUATE
UNIVERSITY [link: 1.1.1]: Best in the World, International, Flexible, Global Networking, and
Collaboration with Industry. The University encourages interdisciplinary research through
effective collaboration between University faculty [link: 4.2.1], research staff (which means
those who engage in research activities at the University (people with research appointment
[link: 4.2] other than University Faculty, Research Fellows [link: 4.3] and Science and
Technology Associates [link: 4.5.1]; the same applies hereinafter), and students. The
University respects Academic Freedom, and all researchers (University faculty and research
staff; the same applies hereinafter) at the University should observe Openness in Research
[link: 1.3.1]. The Office of the Dean of Research [link: 2.4.5.7] is responsible for providing
technical and administrative support for the Research Units.
A unique feature of research at the University is its internal funding that enables challenging
critical problems with cutting-edge technologies. The President, through the Dean of
Research, has the authority to allocate internal research funding for common resources and
Research Units in accordance with their research programs. The Dean of Research is
responsible for implementing the mechanisms to ensure the efficient and fair use of research
resources. Over the years, the University is expected to become less dependent on
government subsidies and expects to be able to win competitive research grants and funding
from industry. All faculty and research staff are encouraged to apply for external funding,
and the Dean of Research shall provide support for externally funded research applications
and monitor execution of these grants.
All researchers are expected to comply with legal and regulatory requirements and uphold
the highest standards of research ethics and integrity. It is the responsibility of all
researchers at OIST to ensure that the appropriate steps are taken with regard to the
recording, handling and preservation of data and associated information such as computer
programs and logbooks, and take great care to prevent any research activity misconduct,
such as fabrication, falsification, and plagiarism, in the research groups. Faculty have a
responsibility to promote and oversee the proper conduct of research in their Unit.
While externally funded research and collaboration with industry is encouraged, secret
research that precludes the disclosure of research results is not permitted. Sponsored
research for which the sponsor requires a delay in publication in excess of six months may
constitute “secret” research. The research conducted at the University must be intended for
public dissemination.

1

ch04_research-activities_en_20180401_cl

Research at the University may not be conducted for the economic benefit of any particular
company or other commercial entity. Commercially sponsored research has the potential to
generate significant Conflicts of Interest [link: 22], which must be disclosed and carefully
evaluated.
In case conducting collaborative research with academia, such research shall be conducted
in accordance with OIST Graduate University Joint Research Regulations. [link: ]
It is prohibited by law to use the subsidy for operations of the University for purposes other
than University’s business.
4.2

Research Appointments

4.2.1 Faculty
Necessary matters regarding faculty research appointments are stipulated in Chapter 3
“Faculty Handbook” [link: 03].
4.2.2 Group Leaders
Definitions for Group Leaders are described in “Guidelines for Title and Job
Class”[link:].The appointment to Group Leader is “Fixed-term”. Group Leader
appointments, unless by exception such as childbirth or illness, or unless appointed as
“Continuing” described below, are limited to 3 years. Extension of appointment beyond 3
years is only possible under extraordinary circumstances and requires approval by the Dean
of Faculty Affairs. In rare cases, Group Leaders with evidence of wide external and internal
recognition of achievements in research may be appointed as “Continuing”. Continuing
appointment must be approved by the Continuing Staff Appointment Committee. In
addition, Group Leaders with Continuing appointments will be reviewed by the Continuing
Staff Appointment Committee, no less than every five years for promotion and salary
adjustments.
4.2.3 Research Specialists
Definitions for research Specialists are described in “Guidelines for Title ans Job
Class”[link:]. Appointment at the Research Specialist level will require convincing
evidence of significant scientific or technical achievements beyond those expected at the
Staff Scientist level and/or qualifications not usually found in a University setting.
Research Specialist appointments, unless by exception such as childbirth or illness, or
unless appointed as “Continuing” described below, are limited to 3 years. Extension of
appointment beyond 3 years is only possible under extraordinary circumstances and
requires approval by the Dean of Faculty Affairs. In rare cases, Research Specialists with
evidence of wide external and internal recognition of achievements in research may be
appointed as “Continuing”. Continuing appointments must be approved by the
Continuing Staff Appointment Committee. In addition, Research Specialists with
Continuing appointments will be reviewed by the Continuing Staff Appointment
Committee, no less than every five years for promotion and salary adjustments.
4.2.4 Staff Scientists
2

ch04_research-activities_en_20180401_cl

Definitions for Staff Scientists are described in “Guidelines for Title ans Job Class”[link:]. Staff
Scientists appointments, unless by exception such as childbirth or illness, are restricted to
a maximum of three years. At the discretion of the faculty member, the initial appointment
may be for 1 or 2 years, with an extension up to a total of 3 years. Extension of appointment
beyond 3 years is only possible under extraordinary circumstances and requires approval
by the Dean of Faculty Affairs. Continuing Staff Scientist appointments are based on an
employment contract that can be renewed with the same terms and conditions for the same
term period until the age of 65, unless either party raises the issue of termination of the
employment contract at least one month before the end of contract term period.
Continuing appointment or promotion to a higher level is based on documented scientific
achievements during their term at the University or on research and professional work
performed at other institutions before coming to the University. Performance is measured
against scientific productivity, interaction with other scientists, other achievements, and
scientifically and technically up-to-date evidence outlined by the employee and confirmed
in letters of reference. Measures of performance include publications, collaborations,
awards, presented lectures, and participation in professional organizations. Staff Scientists
with Continuing appointments will be reviewed by the Continuing Staff Appointment
Committee no less than every five years for promotion and salary adjustments.
4.2.5 Postdoctoral Scholars
Definitions for Postdoctral Scholars are described in “Guidelines for Title and Job
Class”[link:]. Initial appointments may be up to three years, with extensions to a fourth year
being possible and to a fifth year only under extreme circumstances. The appointment is
“Fixed-term” without renewal, which means that it is a temporary appointment normally
for 3 years and cannot exceed 5 years.
4.2.6 Research Unit Technicians
Definitions for Research Unit Technicians are described in “Guidelines for Title and Job
Class”[link:]. Research Unit Technicians appointments are generally Fixed-term, but may
be continued by re-appointment as a “Fixed-term” or converted to a Continuing
appointment. Continuing appointments must be approved by the Continuing Staff
Appointment Committee.
4.2.7 Dean’s Research Group
The Dean’s Research Group carries out research under the guidance of the Dean of
Faculty Affairs, and is used in exceptional circumstances when, for example, there are
research staff whose supervisor is no longer capable of supervising them (e.g. is on
extended leave) and where there is no alternative unit or support service which can
accommodate them.
Appointment is by the Dean of Faculty Affairs, and requires the support of the
Dean of Research and the approval of the President.
4.3

Research Support Appointments

3

ch04_research-activities_en_20180401_cl

4.3.1 Research Support Leaders
Definitions for Research Support Leaders are described in “Guidelines for Title and Job
Class”[link:].
4.3.2 Research Support Specialists
Definitions for Research Support Specialists are described in “Guidelines for Title and
Job Class”[link:].
4.3.3 Research Support Technicians
Definitions for Research Support Technicians are described in “Guidelines for Title and
Job Class”[link:].
4.4 Research Fellows
4.4.1
Research Fellows
Research Fellows are researchers who study in the University as their main research base
(even though those who do not have employment relationship with the University) and
be engaged in a temporary period of mentored research and scholarly training at the
University. They are excellent researchers (those who are matriculated as student at the
University are excluded)
who are awarded Research Fellowship for Young Scientists (Categories PD, RPD
or SPD) by Japan Society for the Promotion of Science (JSPS) or receive other
fellowship, stipend and/or research grant from research funding agencies
located in or outside of Japan.
4.4.2
Acceptance of Research Fellows
Those who want to be engaged in research at the University as Research Fellows shall
apply for acceptance in such capacity to the Dean of Research after the approval of the
Faculty member who will act as their supervisor. The President shall allow their
acceptance if it is not deemed to be an obstacle to the education and research of the
University.
4.4.3
Duration of an Acceptance of Research Fellows
In principle, the duration of an acceptance as a Research Fellows at the University shall
be established on the basis of the duration of the fellowship, stipend and/or research
grant awarded by his/her respective agency. In the event that the supporting research
funding agency cancels the decision to award or its fellowship or disqualify his/her from
fellowship, the President may cancel/terminate the acceptance of the individual as a
Research Fellow at the University.
4.4.4
Performance of Research Fellows
Research Fellows perform or are expected to perform following activities at the
University:
a) Research Fellows work under the supervision of a faculty member.
b) Research Fellows are expected to publish, and may be supported
4

ch04_research-activities_en_20180401_cl

towards the publication of the results of their research during the
training period.
c) Research Fellows may be involved with the pre-thesis and thesis
work of students working in the Research Unit of their supervising
Faculty member.
4.4.5
Treatment of Research FellowsTreatment accorded to individual
Research Fellows by the University may vary, depending upon the rules of their
respective fellowship programs, as stipulated by their respective funding agencies.
However, the following treatment may be provided (details shall be stipulated separately
by the Dean of Research and relevant Division head(s).):
a) An air ticket from the airport closest of their latest domicile to that closest to
the University on their first arrival as a Research Fellow (one way, once, only
available for the person himself/herself)
b) Costs of removal, upon their first arrival as a Research Fellow (only available
when they select the removal agent designated by the University).
c) Facilitation of rental housing (only available when they occupy an apartment
to be designated by the University. Details shall be stipulated separately by
the Vice President for Building and Facility Management )
d) Relocation Support provided by HR Recruiting Support Section
e) Utilization of facilities and equipment of the University which are necessary
for the Research Fellows to conduct research (When a Research Fellow loses
or damages the facilities and/or equipment of the University, as a result of
willful or negligent behavior, the University may request the Research
Fellow restore same to its original state or may assert a claim against the
Research Fellow for damages.)
f) Eligibility to apply Grants-in-Aid for Scientific Research (KAKENHI).
g) Health Checkups offered by the OIST Health Center
h) Application of the Price List for OIST Employees [link:] when Research
Fellows receives medical treatment at the OIST Clinic (applicable only for
the person himself/herself).
i) Honorarium when Research Fellows engage in work as a Teaching Assistant
at the University
j) Utilization of welfare facilities of the University (Those which are provided
by Promotion of Mutual Aid Corporation for Private Schools of Japan are
exclusive.)

5

ch04_research-activities_en_20180401_cl

k) Other treatment which the Dean of Research deems appropriate.
4.4.6 Management of Grants-in Aid of Research Fellows
If Research Fellows receive Grants-in-Aid for Scientific Research from research funding
agencies, the fund shall be managed by the University in accordance with the provisions
of the rules of the University. When they intend to purchase goods or pursue
domestic/foreign travels by the fund, it must be requested in accordance with the
procedures stipulated in Chapter 28 and 29 of OIST Policies, Rules and Procedures
(PRP).
4.4.7 Handling of intellectual property created by Research Fellows
Regulations of Chapter 14 of the PRP [link:14.1] shall be applied for the handling of
intellectual property created by the researches in which Research Fellows engage.
4.4.8 Insurance coverage of Research Fellows
The University takes out an insurance to provide certain support in the case of the
accidents and other incidents occurred during regular research activities. However, it is
recommended that Research Fellows should take out liability insurance and accident
insurance by their own expense in case of accident and for their health care.
4.4.9 Compliance
In the same manner as employees of the University, Research Fellows must comply with
Japanese laws and regulations as well as OIST’s policies, rules and procedures. If
Research Fellows perform the acts indicated as the Reasons for Discipline for Employees
of the University [link: 38.2], President may cancel the acceptance of the relevant
Research Fellows.
4.4.10
Miscellaneous
Other details shall be separately determined by the Dean of Research.
4.5

OIST Researcher Community (ORC)
4.5.1
Role of the ORC
The ORC represents all Postdoctoral Scholars, Staff Scientists, Research Specialists
and Research Fellows at OIST. It provides them with information about university
matters, collects their opinions and suggestions, and provides feedback to the University.
4.5.2
Membership and Officers
The membership of the ORC includes all Postdoctoral Scholars, Staff Scientists,
Research Specialists and Research Fellows who have OIST as their primary affiliation.
The ORC elects two Researcher Representatives and one alternate, a Chairperson, and
a Secretary. Elections will be held at least every two years by secret ballot, as often
as the Chairperson deems necessary. Officers can be removed from their position
by a written petition signed by a majority of the members of the ORC.
6

ch04_research-activities_en_20180401_cl

4.5.3
Meetings
The ORC will hold meetings as necessary and at least quarterly. Each unit is encouraged
to have at least one member attend the meetings to encourage interaction,
communication, and collaboration at OIST. Decisions of the ORC will be made by
majority vote with each attending member having a single vote. At the discretion of the
Chairperson, Executives or Faculty Members may be invited to attend for specific items
on the agenda and may be invited to stay for the rest of the meeting.
4.5.4
Chairperson and Secretary
The Chairperson leads the ORC and moderates the discussion in the ORC meetings. The
Chairperson and a Secretary schedule the meetings for the ORC. The Secretary prepares
the agenda and records notes of the proceedings. In the absence of the Chairperson or
Secretary, the Researcher Representatives assume these roles.
4.5.5
Researcher Representatives and Researcher Representative
Alternate
The Researcher Representatives and Researcher Representative Alternate bring feedback
to, or initiate discussion with, the Faculty Assembly and members of the Executive as
appropriate. They may submit topics for consideration to the Chair of the Faculty
Assembly, based on discussions of the ORC.
4.5.6
Advisory Groups and Assistants
The Chairperson may organize ad hoc or standing Advisory Groups to assist the
Researcher Representatives for specific tasks or issues of importance to the ORC. The
Chairperson may appoint Assistants as necessary to manage the administration of the
ORC.
4.6
The Science and Technology Group (STG)
To achieve its goals, the University needs to be able to respond flexibly to opportunities to
extend and complement its research portfolio and to pursue activities in support of the wider
development of Okinawa. The STG provides a focus for these activities and contributes to the
research capabilities of the University in many ways. It enables new scientific or technical
directions to be supported where a full research unit is not warranted, as well as providing
skilled leadership for technical support services, or develops scientific, technical, industrial,
educational or cultural collaborations with local and international institutions.
4.6.1
Science and Technology Associates (STA)
STA work in the STG on projects that extend and complement the University’s research
portfolio and that support the wider development of Okinawa. These positions cover a
wide range of skills and are used flexibly to enhance the capabilities of the University.
STAs require special research skills and subject knowledge in a relevant scientific,
technical, industrial, educational, or cultural discipline. There are three STA levels,
dependent upon qualifications and experience, with each level requiring increasing
professional achievement. Definitions for STAs are described in “Guidelines for Title and
7

ch04_research-activities_en_20180401_cl

Job Class”[link:].
STAs may conduct their own research or may be affiliated with a research unit and
allocated resources. With the agreement of the Dean of Faculty Affairs, STAs may apply
for external grants as a Principal Investigators.
Where there is an affiliation with a research unit, the STA’s research evaluation will
normally be included in the unit review or tenure review of the Principal Investigator who
leads the unit based on on-site review by external reviewers. For such STAs, the external
expert peer reviews are not conducted independently and the 1st and the 2nd external
expert peer reviews stipulated in 4.6.1.1 are replaced with such unit review or tenure
review, followed by the recommendations stipulated in 4.6.1.3 and 4.6.1.4; provided,
however, such recommendations will include the STA’s contract and/or promotion (if
applicable), but not research funding as the STA’s budget is included in the unit budget.
4.6.1.1 Criteria for External Expert Peer Review
Appointment and research evaluation of STAs is based on external expert peer
reviews. Ideally the first review will be conducted before the end of Year 4, and
the second review before the end of Year 8 if another non-continuing
appointment is offered by the first review. Details of peer review procedures are
defined by the Dean of Faculty Affairs [Link: Review Handbook for
Science and Technology Associates]. Review criteria include following:
1. Quality and significance of the research or research-equivalent activity.
2. Scientific, technical, industrial, educational or cultural importance and interest
of the work.
3. Demonstrated effective utilization of research resources.
4. Contribution to development of external partnerships with academic
institutions, industries, or other international and local institutions.
5. Proposed future work.
4.6.1.2 “Stop-the-Clock” policy for STAs
STAs may request contract extensions and postponement of reviews to
accommodate parental responsibilities relating to childbirth, adoption of a child,
or rearing of a baby. A second extension may be requested. Stop-the-Clock
cannot be multiplied for multiple births (e.g., twins).
This policy is independent of maternity, parental, or childcare leave. Taking such
leave does not automatically lead to application of Stop-the-Clock Policy. An
extension of the review start date does not alter the STA’s normal duties.
The Stop-the-Clock application form [Link] must be submitted to the Dean of
Faculty Affairs before the review process begins (i.e., by the due date for
submission of materials for review evaluation). Upon approval of the application

8

ch04_research-activities_en_20180401_cl

form by the Dean of Faculty Affairs and the President, the following actions will
be taken.
1.

The review date will be postponed by up to one year.

2. Employment of the candidate will be continued for one more year,
subject to 4.6.1 5).
3.

Research funding will be extended by up to one year.

In case of extenuating circumstances (e.g., multiple births, difficult pregnancy,
premature birth, or medical conditions associated with childbirth), the Dean of
Faculty Affairs may grant an additional 3-6- month discretionary extension. A
request for an additional extension must be submitted to the Dean of Faculty
Affairs together with supporting documentation (e.g., a medical certificate).
4.6.1.3 Process after the 1st review
a) Initial appointment of an STA is usually a non-continuing appointment up to
five years. Based on the result of the 1st external expert peer review described in
4.6.1.1 and anticipated future contributions to the University, the Dean of Faculty
Affairs, the Dean of Research, and the Chair of the Faculty Assembly or his/her
nominee will make recommendations to the President about the STA’s contract
and research funding. The recommendations include:
1. Offer of another contract as a non-continuing appointment, research
funding up to five years, and/or promotion (if applicable); or
2. Termination of appointment of a non-continuing STA at the end of
their current contract period, or one year from notification of the
decision, whichever is later, subject to the limitation in 4.6.1.5.
b) In special circumstances, prior to that the above recommendations in 4.6.1.3
(a) are made, the Dean of Faculty Affairs can decide to propose a continuing
appointment to the Continuing Staff Appointment Committee (CSAC) by
considering the outcome of the 1st external expert peer review described in 4.6.1.1
and anticipated future contributions to the University. Procedures with the CSAC
are described in 4.6.1.4 (b).
The President will render a decision based on the recommendations above and
will inform the STA of the result.
4.6.1.4 Process after the 2nd review (Change to continuing
appointment)
The Dean of Faculty Affairs will decide whether to propose a change from noncontinuing to continuing appointment to the CSAC by considering the outcome
of the 2nd external expert peer review described in 4.6.1.1 and anticipated future

9

ch04_research-activities_en_20180401_cl

contributions to the University.
a) If the Dean of Faculty Affairs decides not to propose a continuing
appointment, the Dean of Faculty Affairs recommends that the President
terminate non-continuing appointment of the STA at the end of their current
contract period, or one year from notification of the decision, whichever is later,
subject to the limitation in 4.6.1.5. If the President disagrees with termination of
the appointment, he may discuss other outcomes with the STA.
b) If the Dean of Faculty Affairs proposes a continuing-appointment,
documentation will be submitted to the CSAC. This includes the complete dossier
for the external expert peer review, plus a letter from the Dean of Faculty Affairs
making the case that the conditions are satisfied. The CSAC will use the following
criteria to recommend a continuing-appointment, research funding, and/or
promotion (if applicable) to the President:
1. That the record of achievements during the period under review was
“Outstanding” or “Excellent”;
2. That proposed future work is judged to be of high quality, with a good
chance of having a significant impact in that discipline over the next
10-15 years;
3. That there is an identifiable benefit to OIST’s academic reputation.
The CSAC is comprised of the Executive Vice President for Technology
Development and Innovation, the Dean of Research, the Dean of Faculty Affairs,
and the Chair of the Faculty Assembly or his/her nominee. Since the Dean of
Faculty Affairs is a member of the CSAC and is the proponent for the continuing
appointment of the STA, the Dean of Faculty Affairs will present the
recommendation, but will not participate in discussions regarding the STA’s
continuing appointment during the CSAC meeting.
When the CSAC recommends the continuing appointment and the President
approves the recommendation, the STA can convert from a non-continuing to a
continuing appointment. Continuing STA appointments are based on the
University’s employment contract, which can be renewed under the same terms
and conditions for the same term period until age 65, unless either party raises
the issue of termination of the employment contract in accordance with the
applicable Rules of Employment.
If the CSAC does not recommend a continuing appointment, the STA’s
appointment will terminate at the end of their current contract period, or one
year from notification of the decision, whichever is later, subject to the limitation
in 4.6.1.5.
10

ch04_research-activities_en_20180401_cl

4.6.1.5 Total period of non-continuing appointment
Under no circumstances, should the total period of non-continuing appointment
exceed 10 years counting from the fixed term (non-continuing) contract start
date or a contract extension executed on or after April 1, 2013.
4.6.1.6 STAs with continuing appointments
STAs with continuing appointments will be evaluated by external peer review and
will be reviewed for research funding, promotion, and salary adjustments (if
applicable) by the CSAC at least every five years. If the CSAC recommends
promotion, the Dean of Faculty Affairs will forward the CSAC’s recommendation
to the President for a final decision.
Continuing STAs will still be able to raise external funding in addition to research
funding provided by the University or to replace OIST funding if the University’s
research funding is discontinued after a negative external review. Should the
STA’s achievements warrant, with approval of the Dean of Faculty Affairs, the
STA may apply for timely external peer review in order to restart OIST subsidy
funding after it has been discontinued. Based on the outcome of the external peer
review, the President will
1. Approve restarting research funding for up to five years, or
2. Disapprove restarting research funding.
4.6.2

The Science and Technology Group (STG) Forum
4.6.2.1 The Role of the STG Forum
The STG Forum provides an opportunity for the members of the STG to discuss
the development of the STG, and it provides them with information about
university matters, collects their opinions and suggestions to provide feedback to
the University, identifies and discusses common issues, and allows them to share
research results.
4.6.2.2 Membership and Officers
All STAs are members of the STG Forum. One member will be elected as the
Chair of the Forum. The STG Forum will also elect the STG Representative to the
Faculty Assembly.
4.6.2.3 Meetings
The Forum will meet at least twice in each academic year. Forum meetings are
attended by the Dean of Faculty Affairs, the Dean of Research, the STG Research
Unit Administrator (who acts as the forum secretary), the Executive Assistant to
the Dean of Faculty Affairs, and the HR Assistant to the Dean of Faculty Affairs
as necessary. The President has a standing invitations to attend.
The Dean of Faculty Affairs reports on the STG Forum to the Faculty Council,
and presents the STG Annual Report to the Faculty Assembly.
11

ch04_research-activities_en_20180401_cl

4.7
External Researchers
In enhancing OIST research through collaboration and ezchange, OIST invites researchers
from other Universities or research entities to conduct research with OIST researchers. This
collaboration arrangement is normally requested by faculty, and approved by the Dean of
Research. The collaboration regularly entails access to OIST facilities and resources, which
must be appropriately requested and authorized as part of the approval process. The
categories are as defined below, with application and approval procedures managed through
the resource center, with additional approvals made by relevant resource managers. Please
see the resource center webpage for details of the application and approval process for
external researchers.
4.7.1 Visiting Researchers
This research takes place under the terms of an external researcher agreement, with the
sponsorship of an OIST faculty member. Agreements are valid for up to one calendar
year, extensions beyond the initial agreement term require a repeat of the approval
process prior to the expiry of the original agreement. Definitions for Visiting
Researchers are described in “Guidelines for Title and Job Class”[link: ].
4.7.2 Visiting Fellows
This research takes place under the terms of an external researcher agreement, with the
sponsorship of an OIST faculty member. Agreements are valid for up to one calendar
year, extensions beyond the initial agreement term require a repeat of the approval
process prior to the expiry of the original agreement. Note that fellows employed under
formal awards from foundations made with OIST (i.e. where OIST is the host
institution), are classified as “Fellows” and are managed separately. Definitions for
Visiting Fellows are described in “Guidelines for Title and Job Class”[link: ].
4.7.3 Collaborating Researchers
This research takes place under the terms of both an external researcher agreement and
an over-arching inter-institutional agreement, along with the sponsorship of an OIST
faculty member. Invitations are valid for up to one calendar year, extensions beyond the
initial agreement term require a repeat of the approval process prior to the expiry of the
original agreement. Definitions for Collaborating Researchers are described in
“Guidelines for Title and Job Class”[link: ].
4.7.4
Research Consultants
This research takes place under the umbrella of an external researcher agreement, with
the sponsorship of an OIST faculty member. Agreements are valid for up to one
calendar year, extensions beyond the initial agreement term require a repeat of the
approval process prior to the expiry of the original agreement. Definitions for Research
Consultants are described in “Guidelines for Title and Job Class”[link: ].
4.7.5
Guest Researcher
Guest Researchers must sign a simple guest researcher agreement, binding them to
conform to OIST policy and other legal and contractual requirements. Definitions for

12

ch04_research-activities_en_20180401_cl

Guest Researcher are described in “Guidelines for Title and Job Class”[link: ].
4.8
Mentor
The University provides mentors who give appropriate assistance and advice to junior
researchers so that they can perform research activities responsibly and autonomously.
Researchers (including Research Fellows) who belong to a research unit and members of the
STG are basically mentored by faculty members who are responsible for the research unit
and the Dean of the Faculty Affairs, respectively. Junior faculty members are mentored by
senior faculty members, and the assignments appointments are made by the Dean for the
Faculty Affairs. Students are mentored by academic mentors [link: 5.3.10].
4.9
Responsibilities for Research Staff and Student
Faculty members are not only scientific mentors for research staff and students but are also
leaders in the workplace. They should make sure that the Policy on a Respectful Workplace
[link: 1.3.2] is observed within their units. Each faculty member should provide an
opportunity for their unit members to clearly understand this Policy. Assessing the
knowledge of these policies and inviting constructive input regarding these policies should
be part of each unit members’ annual performance appraisal.
4.10

Organizations for Supporting Research

4.10.1 Advisory Committees
The office of the Dean of Research supports the organization of the following
committees, which send recommendations to the Dean of Research concerning
research related matters.
4.10.1.1 Safety and Health Committee
See Rules for Safety and Health Committee [link: 13.2.1]
4.10.1.2 Radiation Safety Committee
See Rules for Radiation Safety Committee [link: 13.3.11]
4.10.1.3 Biosafety Committee
See Rules for Biosafety & Recombinant DNA Committee [link: 13.3.8/9]
4.10.1.4 Animal Care and Use Committee
See Rules for Animal Care and Use Committee [link: 13.3.10]
4.10.1.5 Human Subject Research Review Committee
See Rules for Human Subject Research Review Committee [link: 13.3.12]
4.10.1.6 Laser Safety Advisory Committee
See Rules for Laser Safety [link: TBP]
4.10.2 Research Support Division
The Research Support Division provides support for common research
13

ch04_research-activities_en_20180401_cl

resources as well as for research conducted by research units. The Division
has the following Sections:
4.10.2.1

Animal Resource Section

4.10.2.2

DNA Sequencing Section

4.10.2.3

Imaging Section

4.10.2.4

Instrumental Analysis Section

4.10.2.5

Mechanical Engineering & Microfabrication Support
Section

4.10.2.6

Okinawa Marine Science Support Section

4.10.2.7

Scientific Computing & Data Analysis

4.10.2.8 Occupational Health and Safety Section
4.10.2.9 Grants and Research Collaborations Section

4.11 Research Ethics, Compliance, and Prevention of Conflicts of Interest
Recognizing that scientific research is developed on a foundation of a public trust mandate,
researchers must make honest and sincere decisions, and act accordingly to ensure
responsible conduct of research. The University promotes responsible conduct of research
and has established mechanisms to respond appropriately to research misconduct in line
with the Code of Conduct for Scientists (2013, Science Council of Japan) and the Guidelines
for Providing an Appropriate Response to Misconduct in Research Activities (2014, Decision
by the Minister of Education, Culture, Sports, Science, and Technology).
Experiments in certain categories are required to be reviewed by the relevant Advisory
Committee [link: 4.5.1] and then approved by the Dean of Research before commencement.
Further, some materials and equipment are subject to regulatory controls (including
administrative guidelines) for acquisition, handling, storage, record-keeping, disposal, and
installation. Activities involving controlled items must comply with relevant statutes,
regulations and guidelines. Researchers have the right to engage in consulting and other
activities with external partners, subject to the University’s policy on Conflicts of Interest and
Commitment as defined in Chapter 22 [link: 22].
4.11.1 Mechanisms for the Responsible Conduct of Research
4.11.1.1 Research Ethics Chief Administrative Officer

14

ch04_research-activities_en_20180401_cl

The President has the ultimate responsibility for ensuring responsible research
conduct at the University as the Research Ethics Chief Administrative Officer.
The Research Ethics Chief Administrative Officer eliminates those factors that
may foster wrongful research conduct, and establishes an environment and
processes that ensure and encourage responsible conduct of research by
implementing adequate misconduct-prevention functions. Further, if any
misconduct occurs, the Research Ethics Chief Administrative Officer provides
the necessary measures impartially and appropriately.
4.11.1.2 Research Ethics Education Officer
The Dean of Research administers the promotion of the research ethics
education provided at the University as the Research Ethics Education Officer.
4.11.2 Research Ethics Education
All researchers, staff, and students of the University including faculty, postdoctoral
scholars, staff scientists, research specialists, technicians, Research Fellows and science
and technology associates must receive research ethics education [link: TBP] at least
once every 5 years. When non-OIST researchers or students temporarily engage in
research activities at the University for collaborative research, internship programs, or
other reasons, the research units or sections that accept these non-OIST personnel are
required to ensure that they receive the research ethics education. The Occupational
Health and Safety Section supports the Dean of Research in the preparation of the
research ethics education materials and the management of attendance records.
4.11.3 Management of Research Data and Laboratory Notebooks
Research data are valuable not only for the researcher who obtained them but also for the
science community at large. All researchers are asked to preserve data in a secure,
identifiable way with appropriate backup methods, and disclose these when necessary. Any
research results at the University, including laboratory notebooks and electronic data files,
are in general deemed as property of the University. It is the responsibility of each
researcher to ensure that all of their research is properly documented in accordance with
best practice in the field of study. This responsibility includes the safe keeping of research
data and where appropriate lab note books, for future examination. Faculty should provide
clear guidance to all researchers in their Unit on the form that this research record should
take. The fabrication or falsification of data, and the plagiarism are not tolerated. The
dissemination of research data on public databases is encouraged, while the best care must
be taken to protect the privacy of human subjects data. When research staff leaves a
research unit, an agreement should be made with the faculty regarding what data can be
moved. When a faculty member or research staff leaves the University, while the ownership
of the research data remains with the University, the Dean of Research can authorize a
proper data transfer arrangement to ensure that the on-going research is not hindered.
4.11.4 Management of Research Materials
Research materials used in research, such as genetic samples and living modified
organisms (LMOs), are valuable resources for the science community at large. Many
15

ch04_research-activities_en_20180401_cl

journals and funding agencies require such materials to be made publicly available
after publication. Appropriate conditions, such as extremely low temperatures, must
be maintained for the preservation of research samples/materials and one must take
proper procedures when transferring them so that she/he can respond to such request
by other researchers. Research samples and materials must be preserved for at least
five years from the date they were generated, published, or presented at a conference.
When providing or accepting research materials, a material transfer agreement (MTA)
is required between the parties. When a researcher moves to another institution, an
agreement is required beforehand concerning the division of materials.
4.11.5 Research Protocols
Faculty members need to ensure that research protocols in certain categories (such as
the research involving radioisotopes, recombinant DNA, pathogens, toxins, animal or
human subjects) are approved by the relevant Advisory Committee before
commencement of the research and that approved protocols are followed by all
research unit members. For specific research protocols that require approval, see
Chapter 13 “Safety, Health & Environmental Protection” [link: 13].
4.11.6 Publication of Research Results
The results of research conducted at the University are required to made public as
soon as possible in the form of journal articles, presentation at a conference or
similarly appropriate venues (Chapter 1.3.1, Openness in Research [link: 1.3.1]). While
publishing research results, faculty members and researchers must ensure that there
are no violations, such as fabrications, falsifications, plagiarism, duplicate
submissions, inappropriate authorship, or the use of copyrighted materials without
gaining permission or giving credit.
The Okinawa Institute of Science and Technology Graduate University Institutional
Repository (hereinafter referred to as “OISTIR”) serves as the platform for public
access to the intellectual output of the University. Publications and other research
results should be deposited in the OISTIR, except in rare circumstances approved by
the Library Director. Those who deposit materials in the OISTIR should follow the
Okinawa Institute of Science and Technology Graduate University Institutional
Repository Operational Guidelines to maintain an open-access environment.
Publications in open access journals are encouraged and may receive support from the
central budget.
4.11.7 Export and Import Compliance
Japan, like most nations, imposes controls and duties on the import and export of
many goods, including materials and equipment used in basic research of the type
conducted at the University. Intellectual property such as software, production knowhow, and even User Manuals are also regulated and controlled by the import/export
regulations. Goods approved for import may also be subject to fees/taxes (sometimes
referred to as “duties”) and periodical report to the authority, although items used in
university-based research may be eligible for an exemption from duties. Great care

16

ch04_research-activities_en_20180401_cl

must be exercised and the Security Export Control Officer should be consulted to
assure export/import control compliance. Refer to the government’s Security Trade
Control website [link: http://www.meti.go.jp/policy/anpo/englishpage.html] and the
Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Control Law [link:
http://www.japaneselawtranslation.go.jp/law/detail/?id=21&vm=04&re=01]
4.11.8 Conflicts of Interest and Commitment
Faculty members must disclose any situation that could lead to any real or apparent
conflicts of interest as detailed in Chapter 22 “Conflicts of Interest and Commitment”
[link:22].
4.12 Health, Safety, and Environmental Protection
All researchers conducting research activities must do so under the relevant health, safety,
and environmental protection regulations. For health, safety and environmental protection
information, researchers are required to fully understand and observe Chapter 13 “Safety,
Health & Environmental Protection” [link: 13].
Each faculty member is responsible for training the members of their team in the
appropriate health and safety procedures for that particular research area and for the
management of those procedures in their laboratory or other workplace. Faculty members
are also responsible for the safety of the laboratory facilities and equipment and are
required to cooperate with investigations and inspections by University personnel or
external agencies.
4.13 Intellectual Property
Intellectual property may be a source of revenue to support the education and research
mission of the University [link: 14]. In recognition of this, the University requires disclosure
to the University when information and developments derived from research may be of
broader benefit or/and have commercial value. The Technology Licensing Section [link:
14.4.2] provides support in identifying and evaluating potential intellectual property,
manages the preparation of patent applications, and monitors the effective use of such
properties. Nondisclosure and Confidentiality Agreements raise significant concerns as the
terms of such agreements may conflict with the University’s Openness in Research Policy
[link:1.3.1]. A contractual commitment to keep information secret can severely restrict the
ability of University faculty to pursue research in the manner they choose and can make it
difficult for the University to protect the ideas and inventions derived from the work of the
faculty and researchers.
It is forbidden to sign or otherwise bind the University to a confidentiality obligation
without first having obtained written approval from the General Counsel. Those seeking an
in-depth review of this subject relating to the University’s activities, please see Chapter 14,
“Intellectual Property & Technology Transfer”[link:14].
4.14 Fiscal Obligations
Faculty members and recipients of external grants are responsible for managing their
funding properly and efficiently. (See Chapter 26 “Finance & Accounting” [link: 26])
17

ch04_research-activities_en_20180401_cl

4.15 Operation and Management of Public Research Grants
4.15.1 Mechanisms for the Operation and Management of Public Research
Grants
4.15.1.1 Public Research Grant Chief Administrative Officer
The President has the ultimate responsibility for the operation and management
of public research grants at the University as the Public Research Grants Chief
Administrative Officer. The Public Research Grants Chief Administrative Officer
is required to ensure that all factors that may foster misconduct relating to the
operation and management of public research grants are eliminated through the
establishment of mechanisms that have adequate misconduct-prevention
functions. Further, if any misconduct occurs, the Public Research Grants Chief
Administrative Officer is required to provide all necessary measures impartially
and appropriately.
4.15.1.2 Public Research Grants General Administrative Officer
The Dean of Research assists the Public Research Grants Chief Administrative
Officer, and has the authority and responsibility for the operation and
management of public research grants as a Public Research Grants General
Administrative Officer at the University. The Public Research Grants General
Administrative Officer develops Misconduct Prevention Plan and provides
education and training workshops based on the Misconduct Prevention Plan to
staff members in a planned and consistent manner.
4.15.1.3 Public Research Grants Compliance Officer
The Research Finance Manager appointed in the Office of the Dean of Research,
the Grants and Research Collaborations Section Leader and the Business
Development Section Leader play the following roles as a Public Research Grants
Compliance Officers:
(1) Applies misconduct prevention measures, confirms the status of the
implementation, and submits periodical reports to the Public Research
Grants General Administrative Officer
(2) Prevent misconduct, provides compliance education programs to all
persons engaged in work relating to the use or management of public
research grants, and provides supervision over the attendance and
accomplishments
(3) Monitors the use and management of public research grants by the
persons engaged in such works relating to the use or management of
public research grants and provides instructions for improvements
as necessary
4.15.2 Internal Research Funding
The University’s internal funding for a research unit is allocated each fiscal year based on

18

ch04_research-activities_en_20180401_cl

a five-year research program confirmed by the President at the time of the initial
appointment and recommended by a review committee at the time of renewal. Any
research equipment approved for a five-year research program should be considered
common or shared equipment. The Dean of Research along with the Research Support
Sections investigate purchases of any research equipment over five million yen for
possible use as common or shared equipment.
4.15.2.1 Common Research Resources
The Research Support Sections overseen by the Dean of Research manages the
common research facilities and equipment and provides services to the research
units. The Resources Allocation Committee [link: TBP] considers the
introduction of new equipment and services as well as improvements in their
operations and forwards such recommendations to the Dean of Research.
4.15.2.2 Internal Cost Charging
The Research Support Sections may charge research units for the use of common
research equipment and services to promote fair and efficient use.
4.15.3 External Research Funding
While internal research funding is a highly attractive feature for faculty, the University as
a whole is expected to gradually depend less on government subsidies and more on
competitive government grants and private funding. It is also important for the financial
freedom of the University to provide flexible support for its research, education, and
community building. The Grants and Research Collaborations Section overseen by the
Dean of Research provides support for researchers to submit competitive research grant
proposals and to spend the budget effectively in compliance with the funding agency
regulations. When submitting grant proposals, requirements for additional space,
equipment maintenance costs and the required incremental administrative support
should be adequately considered.
4.15.3.1 Public Grant Application
Applications for government, prefectural, or international research grants by all
eligible researchers are encouraged. Non-faculty researchers should consult the
faculty before application, so that the pursuit of the grant does not interfere with
the overall goal of the research unit. Any submission that requires additional
laboratory or office space, and does not cover indirect costs or requires matching
internal funding, requires additional scrutiny. All grant applications must be
approved by the Dean of Research before submission.
4.15.3.2 Private Funding and Joint Research
When an opportunity for private research funding or joint research with an
industrial partner emerges, the faculty is required to consult the Business
Development Section for the appropriate contract or agreement. Privately funded
research at the University must be of an academic nature and needs to be
disseminated as a publication or conference presentation (see Chapter 1.3.1

19

ch04_research-activities_en_20180401_cl

Openness in Research [link: 1.3.1]). When conducting privately funded or joint
industrial research, the policies and requirements regarding Intellectual Property
and Technology Transfer [link: 14] and Conflicts of Interest and Commitment
[link: 22] must be observed.
4.15.3.3 Management of External Funds
The use of external grants in general needs to conform to the requirements
described in the University Policies, Rules & Procedures, in the same manner as
internal research funding. Any additional requirements by the funding agency
have to be observed. All grant recipients should be aware that non-compliance
with the rules, both intentionally or mistakenly, can negatively impact the
reputation of the University and can result in extensive sanctions for the
offending faculty member.
4.16 External Use of Research Facilities and Services
The University is privileged to have cutting-edge research facilities and equipment along with
expert technical support staff. While the University’s research facilities and services are
primarily for its own research and education, the utilization of excess capacity by external
academic or industrial users can contribute to the advancement of science and technology in
Okinawa and can foster active research communities around the University. The Office of the
Dean of Research, overseen by the Dean of Research, promotes the external use of the
University’s research facilities and services while assuring availability for internal users, the
proper charging of both direct and indirect costs, safety, security, and compliance with the
University’s policies and applicable regulations.
4.16.1 Condition of Use
An external user of the University’s facilities and services must sign an agreement that
outlines the safety and security, the ethical standards of the University, and the
responsibilities of the user. If the user’s research has not been reviewed by an
institutional review board, approval by the University’s applicable committees, such as
the Human Subjects Research Review Committee, is required. Users are also required
to have adequate training by the staff of the Dean of Research’s Division before using
any equipment. Any damage caused to the University’s facilities, equipment, or other
resources by a user must be compensated for by the user.
4.16.2 Scheduling and Prioritization
The Office of the Dean of Research is required to implement appropriate procedures for
the scheduling of the facility use so that the University researchers’ programs are not
compromised.
4.16.3 Cost Charging
The Office of the Dean of Research, under the oversight of the Dean of Research, is
required to establish appropriate charges for facility use and services for internal users,
external academic users, and industrial users. The basic principle is to charge internal
users for the incremental cost per use and to charge external academic users for a share
20

ch04_research-activities_en_20180401_cl

of the annual maintenance costs and to charge industrial users for the installation and
depreciation of the facility.
4.17 Reporting and Investigation procedures
For reporting and investigation procedures in the case of any misconduct or suspicion
thereof in research activities and use of research grants, see Chapter 23 [link: 23].
4.18 Contacts
Policy Owner: Dean of Research

21

ch04_research-activities_en_20180401_cl

OIST Graduate University
Policies, Rules & Procedures
Authority:
 Approved by the President
 School Education Act

Chapter 5. Graduate School Handbook
5.1.The Graduate School
The mission of the Graduate School of the OIST Graduate University is to provide first-class
postgraduate education to the highest international standard. The Graduate School
implements the following three core policies:
i.

Admission Policy:

The Graduate University aims to train researchers who will play important roles in the
international scientific community at leading scientific institutions in the public and
private sectors. Accordingly, the Admissions Policy will make it a principle to recruit
candidates with the potential and motivation to become leaders in scientific research on
the international stage.
Recruitment will focus on attracting outstanding students from within Japan and
internationally. Here “outstanding students” means students who are highly motivated by
the excitement and potential of the cutting-edge research that is possible at OIST, who
have the curiosity and academic ability needed to excel in their chosen areas of study, and
who have the capacity for independent research and original thinking. Our students will
also require proficiency in oral and written communication skills in English for advanced
study in science, and the ability to interact effectively with people from a wide range of
backgrounds.
Students will be eligible to apply if they are expected to complete a BSc or equivalent
degree prior to admission, or have previously completed a BSc, MSc or equivalent degree
representing the completion of an undergraduate course in science and engineering, or
exceptionally in other fields. The student should meet requirements for admission to a
graduate school under the School Education Act. Those who hold a Masters degree may be
exempted from some coursework with the approval of the Dean. Successful candidates will
only be enrolled into a doctoral program.

ii. Curriculum Policy:
In keeping with the concept of “best in the world” we will recruit outstanding students and
conduct top class academic instruction. The academic program will aim to develop the full
potential of each student toward scientific excellence and independence. In accordance
with this aim, every student will be treated as a unique individual and have their program

ch05_graduate-school-handbook_en_20180127_cl

of studies tailored to their scientific aspirations, prior education, and current interests. The
basic principles of the curriculum design are to facilitate independent scientific thinking,
and to learn by doing research. There will be a single program without barriers between
disciplines.
The students will be accepted directly into an integrated doctoral program leading to a
postdoctoral career path in leading research institutes and universities. The doctoral
program will have a standard enrollment period of five years, and will follow a coursebased study system. A three-term per year system will be used. The first two years will
comprise a combination of laboratory rotations and courses, designed to prepare the
students for their doctoral thesis work in a flexible way. In the second year the students
will choose a laboratory in which to undertake thesis research and will submit a Thesis
Proposal. An examination for progression to thesis research is held at the end of the
second year, based on the written Thesis Proposal and an Oral Examination that includes a
defense of the proposal and examination of fundamental knowledge in the field of the
research. In order to ensure the highest international standards an external examiner who
is expert in the field of the thesis study is a member of the examining panel. After
determination of readiness for thesis work the students will enter into a three-year period
of thesis research, which will conclude with examination of the thesis.
Students entering the program directly from undergraduate studies will normally take
about five years to complete their course of study. Those with a relevant Honors degree or
a Master’s degree in another area can finish in four years. Students entering with a
Master’s degree in the area they intend to specialize can finish in three years.

iii. Diploma Policy:
The Ph.D. degree is conferred by the University in recognition of completion by the
candidate of original research that makes a significant contribution to scientific
knowledge. The degree is not awarded for completion of certain courses or a fixed period
of enrolment, or for directed work as a technician. The work for the degree consists of
original research and systematic studies that advance knowledge, conducted by the
candidate with an appropriate degree of independence. In addition, the candidate must
demonstrate the ability to communicate the results of their research and scholarship
effectively in both oral and written English. The candidate must present their work in a
thesis and defend it in an oral examination. A published paper or manuscript ready for
submission must be included as an appendix to the thesis. A candidate may not submit for
examination work that has been included in a thesis or dissertation that has been
previously submitted towards a degree qualification.
In order to ensure the highest international standards a Final Examination is held after
submission of the thesis. The Final Examination includes examination of the written thesis
by two external examiners of international standing in the field of the thesis research, who
also conduct an on-site oral examination.

ch05_graduate-school-handbook_en_20180127_cl

The Graduate School is a division of the OIST Graduate University. The Dean is the head of
the Graduate School. The Graduate School’s major role is to provide academic services,
student support and administrative support. These functions are organized into the
corresponding sections as follows:
5.1.1.
Academic Services Section
The academic services section supports the academic program of the graduate
school, and performs the following tasks:
i
Participate in the formulation of academic policies related to
teaching of graduate courses and the academic program;
ii
Administer the process of admission, registration and enrolment of
students;
iii
Organize course advising and appointment of Academic Mentors
iv
Organize thesis supervision and appointment of supervisors and
thesis committees;
v
Monitor the academic progress of graduate students;
vi
Coordinate conduct of course assessment and manage results;
vii
Determine the results of PhD candidatures on the recommendation
of the examiners;
viii
Organize PhD examinations, external examiners, and coordinate
the examination process;
ix
Award degrees and administer graduation requirements;
x
Conduct quality control processes including evaluation of teaching;
xi
Disseminate good practice in teaching and PhD supervision;
xii
Provide information about the Graduate School and its courses;
xiii
Coordinate teaching activities, faculty assignment of teaching, the
course schedule and timetable of classes and examinations;
xiv
Manage teaching resources including seminar rooms and lecture
theatres, teaching laboratories and equipment;
xv
Provide induction programs for new students and teaching faculty;
xvi
Coordinate academic content of international workshops, courses
and seminars; and
xvii
Prepare and maintain database systems concerning:

a. Intending students and applicants for admission
b. Individual records of faculty members

c.
d.
e.
f.

Teaching assignments
PhD thesis supervision
Student academic records
Course schedules
g. Alumni

ch05_graduate-school-handbook_en_20180127_cl

xviii

Provide secretariat for academic committees including:
a. Admissions committee;
b. Curriculum and Examination committees;
c. Thesis committees

xix

Maintain a student information system

5.1.2.
Student Support Section
The student support section is concerned with the everyday requirements for living,
health and welfare of students at OIST, and is charged with the following tasks:
i
Participate in the formulation of policy on issues broadly affecting
graduate students, including housing, financial support and other
welfare;
ii
Provide supporting services for prospective and current graduate
students, special students and interns;
iii
Disseminate information and advice to students concerning
scholarships and financial support;
iv
Provide orientation to life in Okinawa and Japan for new students;
v
Implement policies concerning student welfare, health, disability,
childcare and safety;
vi
Administer student financial support and scholarships;
vii
Administer student welfare services;
5.1.3.
Admissions and Career Development Section
The Admissions and Career Development Section is concerned with the recruiting
of graduate students to OIST and supports professional development of current
students in the Graduate School, and performs the following tasks:
i.
Assist faculty in the mentoring of students for career development
and provide information and advice to students on career
opportunities, among other things
ii.
Provide professional development courses as part of the academic
program;
iii.
Undertake student recruitment activity
iv.
Organize seminars and lectures of general interest, among other
things
5.2. Admissions and Registration
The OIST Graduate University aims to train researchers who will play important roles in the
international scientific community at leading scientific institutions in the public and private
sectors. Accordingly, recruitment focuses on attracting outstanding students. Here
“outstanding” means students who are highly motivated by the excitement and potential of the
cutting edge research that is possible at OIST, who have the curiosity and academic ability
needed to excel in their chosen areas of study, and who have the capacity for independent
research and original thinking.

ch05_graduate-school-handbook_en_20180127_cl

The OIST Graduate Program is conducted in English, therefore our students also require
proficiency in oral and written communication skills in English for advanced study in science.
<equal opportunity statement: Candidates are considered for admission without regard to race,
color, religion, national origin, disability, or gender.>>
5.2.1.
Eligibility for admission to the graduate program
Students will be eligible to apply for the OIST Graduate Program if they have
completed a BSc, MSc or equivalent degree or expect to do so prior to the admission
date. They must also meet admission requirements stipulated in Article 20 of the
University Rules [link:].
Successful candidates for the OIST Graduate Program will only be enrolled into a
doctoral program and only as full-time students. Students must indicate an
intention to complete the program leading to a PhD. There is currently no provision
for a student to undertake an MSc.
5.2.2. Application for admission to the graduate program
An applicant who wishes to become a candidate for a PhD shall apply for admission
before the closing date. Applications at other times should be directed to the student
enquiries desk. The President may permit flexibility in time of entrance, for example
when this would give advantages in recruitment of excellent students, or when this
would be of benefit for the academic progress of the student.
Specific application period and closing dates are announced on the OIST public
website. Prospective students are required to submit an application for admission
online. All forms are to be filled out in English. The following documents are
required:
i.

ii.

iii.

iv.

Academic transcript and authenticated copies of diploma (BSc, MSc,
etc.) An English explanation is required for transcripts that are not
written in English.
Applicant’s statement. This should be not more than 400 words and
should address the following points:
a. The applicant’s scientific interests and aspirations, and;
b. What the applicant hopes to gain from undertaking graduate
studies at OIST.
An applicant who is seeking admission on the basis of a qualification
from a university for which the language of teaching and/or
examination is not English is required to provide standard language
test scores (TOEFL or IELTS) obtained within last 2 years. There is
no minimum score required but the information is necessary in
determining preparatory course requirements.
A minimum of two letters of recommendation from appropriate
academic sponsors.
ch05_graduate-school-handbook_en_20180127_cl

The following documents may be submitted optionally, and will be taken into
consideration by the selection committee if available:
i
Additional evidence of academic ability such as GRE general test
scores obtained within last 2 years.
ii
Additional material such as copies of publications and abstracts of
oral presentations, and other evidence of achievement.
The OIST Graduate School reserves the right to request an external evaluation of
academic qualifications from any applicant.
5.2.3. Selection for admission
The Admissions Committee makes the selection of students for admission, in
accordance with the policies, rules and procedures of the Admissions Committee
[link: 5.13.1].
This Committee reviews all material submitted by each student and makes a shortlist of about 80 applicants. The short-listed applicants are invited to an Admissions
Workshop.
5.2.3.1.
Admissions Workshop
An Admissions Workshop will be held each year. The aims of the
Admissions Workshop are to:
i Conduct face-to-face interviews of candidates by the Admissions
Committee or a subcommittee thereof.
In the interview the
Committee discusses with the student their aims and their motivation
to undertake graduate studies at OIST. The panel will also discuss
the student’s academic record and career aspirations. The student
will have an opportunity to ask questions about the graduate program.
The interview will be recorded and available to the selection panel.
ii Provide tours of OIST research and teaching facilities, student support
and accommodation, and the surrounding environments.
iii Provide a social program giving an opportunity for students to meet
existing students and faculty members.
5.2.3.2. Travel Rules for Candidates Attending Admissions Workshop
For those invited to attend the workshop the travel costs and a per diem
will be paid by OIST. The workshop will comprise a minimum of two full
days in Okinawa, with flexibility regarding additional time.
Meals and accommodation
OIST will cover the cost of accommodation and meals for candidates
attending the Admissions Workshop at the OIST Graduate University.
Breakfast, lunch & dinner will be provided from the evening before
through the morning after the workshop.

ch05_graduate-school-handbook_en_20180127_cl

Travel support
1: OIST will support a round trip in economy class between Okinawa
and the airport for the candidate’s starting and returning destination,
excluding expenses for any layover (at any Japanese or foreign cities).
2: Candidates are responsible for fees resulting from any change or
cancellation of their flight and accommodation made after our travel
agent or OIST has confirmed the booking. Change or cancellation of the
itinerary by the candidate is not permitted without prior approval from
OIST. In case of any breach of this rule, flight and/or accommodation
might be charged to the candidate.
3: OIST will arrange transportation between Naha (Okinawa) airport and
OIST Seaside House. If a candidate does not arrive in and/or depart from
Okinawa as scheduled for personal reasons, they will be responsible for
arranging and paying for their transportation.
4: If candidates wish to purchase travel insurance, they are asked to do
so at their own expense.
5: Candidates are expected to arrive at OIST on the day before the
workshop. The workshop will comprise a minimum of two full days in
Okinawa, with flexibility regarding additional time. A longer stay in
Okinawa is permitted provided that the graduate school approves the
itinerary in advance. In case of an extended stay the candidate will be
responsible for arranging and paying for their own accommodation.
5.2.3.3.
Final selection
The Admissions Committee will make a final selection of applicants who
will be offered a place in the graduate program, and inform the
Admissions Office. The successful applicants will be sent an official letter
offering admission to the graduate program. Successful applicants will be
required to accept or decline the offer within 30 days. The deadline for
accepting or declining the offer may be extended by the Admissions
Committee. A ranked list of reserves will be kept for a second round of
offers if places become available.
5.2.4. Number of Students Admitted
In accordance with best-practice graduate teaching methods where low numbers of
students for each faculty member are essential, and in line with overseas prestigious
universities, the admission capacity of PhD full-time graduate students accepted by
the Graduate School shall be as stipulated in Article 15 of the OIST University Rules
[link:].

ch05_graduate-school-handbook_en_20180127_cl

5.2.5. Transfer students
Students who have commenced studies at another university and wish to continue
their students at OIST and obtain the OIST PhD degree may, under special
circumstances, be admitted subject to meeting admission standards. Such cases may
arise, for example, when newly appointed faculty members with existing graduate
students are appointed at OIST before their students complete their studies. In such
cases OIST wishes to ensure the best possible outcome for the students and their
supervisors while preserving the high international standards of the graduate
program.
Transfer students should complete the application process in the same way as other
students but their folder should include a letter from the OIST faculty member
explaining the situation and recommending the student for the OIST graduate
program.
5.2.6. Registration
An applicant who has been admitted to the graduate program as a full-time
candidate for a PhD will become a student of the OIST Graduate School on the date
of first registration. Registration is a synonym for matriculation in this context.
Every student is required to register on admission to the Graduate School (Article
25 of the University Rules [link:]), and thereafter at the beginning of each academic
year of the graduate program.

Flexibility in time of admission or registration may be of advantage. For example,
there may be advantages to the Graduate School in recruitment of excellent
students, and there may be benefits for the academic progress of the student.
Variations in time of registration may be allowed by the President at the request of
the Dean of the Graduate School.
For graduate students registering for the doctoral program leading to a PhD, the
following conditions apply:
i Registration is restricted to full-time candidates.
ii A full-time candidate may hold an external scholarship or receive
financial support from OIST, or a combination of both, to enable
him or her to study on a full-time basis, but may not otherwise hold
employment.
iii The full-time status of the student must be confirmed in a written
declaration signed by the student and the Dean of the Graduate
School.

In order to register, the student, must submit all forms in complete form to the
Student Support section.

ch05_graduate-school-handbook_en_20180127_cl

On registration a “registered student record” will be created for the student in the
student record system. This record will be the official record of the student and will
link to all other records including student academic record, progress reports,
financial support, and housing, etc.
If the student does not fulfill all the requirements for registration by the deadline
announced by the Office of the Graduate School, the admission will be automatically
cancelled, and the student will be notified of cancellation in a timely manner.
5.2.7.
Student ID Card
Students are required to carry a valid Student ID Card to access OIST facilities
(doorways, classrooms, laboratories, administrative offices, libraries, etc.), and
must present it when certificates are issued or when OIST staff asks for
identification. Short-term students will be provided with a temporary Student ID
card.
5.2.7.1.
Card Issue and Return
When the student has been registered by the Graduate School, he or she
will be issued with a Student ID Card. The card remains the property of
the Graduate School, and must be returned upon completion of the
period of study.
The card becomes invalid once the student is no longer a registered
student at OIST.
5.2.7.2.
Access
Entry to general laboratory areas is only permitted after the student has
successfully completed the induction program during Enrollment Week,
or similar (see PRP 5.2.8[link: 5.2.8]). Additional access to specific more
restricted areas will only be made available after the appropriate safety
and equipment training has been provided. Such access will only be
provided while the student has a need to enter those particular restricted
areas.
5.2.7.3.
Loss and Replacement of Cards
In the event that a Student ID Card is lost or misplaced, the student must
immediately inform the Graduate School Office. A replacement Student
ID Card will be issued.
5.2.7.4.
Permissions
Student ID Cards may not under any circumstances be loaned out or used
by other persons, whether or not those persons are themselves authorized
to have access to OIST facilities. Cards may not be copied, reverseengineered, distributed without permission, or cryptanalyzed. Cards
remain the property of OIST even when invalidated. The Dean of the

ch05_graduate-school-handbook_en_20180127_cl

Graduate School may take disciplinary action in the event that these
provisions are not followed.
5.2.8. Induction program
Students registered as full time OIST PhD students complete an induction program
during Enrollment Week (the first week of the first term of the Academic Year). This
program includes briefings on the PhD program, the mentoring and guidance of
students, and student support, as well as training in the use of OIST facilities such
as the IT infrastructure, the library, and the laboratories. Essential safety training to
operate in the research laboratories and a preliminary health screen are mandatory
before entry to the laboratory areas is provided.
OIST PhD students arriving outside of Enrollment Week and incoming special
students may take this induction program at other times of the year more suitable
to their arrival time. However, no laboratory access can be provided to students who
have not completed this or a similar induction program.
5.2.9. Application Fees, Admission Fees and Tuition Fees
The Application Fee, Admission Fee and Tuition Fee (Article 42 of the University
Rules [link:]) are set as follows.
Application Fee
0 Yen
Admission Fee
0 Yen
Tuition Fee 540,000 Yen /Annual
Payment of the Tuition Fee is by deduction of one-twelfth of the Tuition Fee from
the monthly Research Assistant payments, over 12 months.

5.3. The OIST Graduate Program
The OIST graduate school offers an integrated doctoral program leading to the degree of Doctor
of Philosophy (PhD). The degree of PhD is a research postgraduate degree. Such a degree shall
be awarded to a candidate who
i

ii

iii

meets admission requirements and receives and accepts an offer of
admission, and is registered as a full-time PhD student for a
minimum of three years and not more than ten years; and
satisfactorily completes prescribed coursework amounting to at
least 30 points (20 from courses, 10 from research work) or
alternatively, has obtained the equivalent number of credits based
on prior study; and
presents a successful thesis representing the result of the
candidate’s research which should constitute an original
contribution to knowledge and contain material worthy of
publication; and
ch05_graduate-school-handbook_en_20180127_cl

iv

satisfies the examiners in an oral examination in matters relevant
to the subject of the thesis.

5.3.1.
Period of study
The standard period of study is 5 years but may vary according to the level of
preparation of the student and the progress of their research. The period of study
may be reduced if the student has previously undertaken study that provides
appropriate preparation.
5.3.1.1.
Admission with BSc.
The period of study for a student entering with a first degree is 5 years.
5.3.1.2.
Admission with MSc.
A student who has already obtained an MSc or has significant,
documented research experience may enter directly into the second or
third years of the program. Such a student will be required to complete
an approved course of studies.
5.3.1.3.
Minimum period of study
The minimum period of study is stipulated in Article 35 of the university
rules [link:].
5.3.1.4.
Extension to the standard period of study
In exceptional circumstances the period of study may be extended
beyond the standard period of 5 years. Extension requires approval of the
Dean of the Graduate School. In case of extension of the period of study,
extension of financial support is not automatically granted. (see financial
support section [link: 5.4.1])
5.3.1.5.
Maximum period of study
The maximum permitted period of study is 10 years, including Study
Leave and Annual Leave [link: 5.3.17].
5.3.2. Academic year and dates of terms
The academic year begins in September each year. The school year is composed of
three terms, with nominally 15 weeks of scheduled teaching in each term. This
schedule was chosen in order to give enough time for completion of a meaningful
project in each Research Rotation (See Article 17 of the OIST University Rule).
5.3.3. Course work requirements
The first two years of the integrated 5-year doctoral program comprise a
combination of Research Rotations and courses, designed to prepare the student for
his or her doctoral thesis work in a flexible way. In the first two years of the program
students will undertake an individualized study program constructed from a
combination of courses.

ch05_graduate-school-handbook_en_20180127_cl

5.3.4. Course credits
The number of credits assigned to each course is stipulated in the Schedule of
Courses [link: http://groups.oist.jp/ja/grad/course-info]. Students will be required
to accrue at least 30 points before graduation. Courses include Professional
Development, Basic, Advanced, and Research Courses. The subtotal of Professional
Development, Basic, and Advanced courses amounts to a value of 20 points.
Research courses include Rotations and a Thesis Proposal amounting to a total value
of 10 points. International Workshop Participation may provide additional points.
Credits may be awarded for graduate courses completed at other universities or at
OIST prior to admission (Chapter 5.6.2 [link: 5.6.2]).
5.3.5. Mandatory Courses
To maintain flexibility in the curriculum the number of mandatory courses (apart
from the required research courses: Rotation and Thesis Proposal) is limited to two,
each worth one credit. These courses are Professional Development I and II. These
Professional Development Courses are designed to develop essential knowledge,
experience, and abilities for successful completion of the graduate program and to
prepare the graduate for a career in leading international academic or industrial
research laboratories.
5.3.6. Basic and Advanced Courses
Each student will normally take at least 4 Basic courses and 4 Advanced courses.
In general, Basic and Advanced courses are worth two credits. Information about
Courses is provided in the Schedule of Courses [link:
https://groups.oist.jp/grad/courses-term-0] and Course Approval sections [link:
5.3.10]. Course advising [link: 5.3.10.] is undertaken by an individual Academic
Mentor for each student, to provide an individualized course of studies.
5.3.6.1.
Research Rotations
Rotations form a major part of the student’s work in the first year of the
graduate program. In each rotation, the student will spend one term
undertaking a specific project and will then move on to a different
research unit. The Rotations provide a variety of experience in different
laboratories that will broaden the student’s understanding of different
disciplines, techniques, and ways of thinking. Rotations may include
theoretical work or modeling as well as laboratory benchwork. They are
intended to help the student select the most appropriate research unit
and research question for their thesis research. Students will typically
complete three Rotations before deciding on a thesis topic.
Three Research Rotations are always required, with a total point value of
9 points. There may be exceptions to this requirement in the case of
equivalent prior research experience, in which case credit may be
awarded in increments of 3 points as a cross-credit [link: 5.6.2.]. In
general, not more than 6 points can be cross-credited for rotations, so
that all students must complete at least one rotation.
ch05_graduate-school-handbook_en_20180127_cl

The choice of Rotations is part of the approved course taken by the
student, and requires discussion with the Academic Mentor [link: 5.3.10].
The number of students who may take a rotation in a given research unit
is limited to 2 and not all choices will necessarily be available at a given
time. Students should list in order of preference 5 rotations on the
application form [link: ] submitted with their proposed course for
approval by the Dean of the Graduate School. Their top 3 will be
accommodated whenever possible. If not possible, the committee will
look further along their list to ensure they can complete their rotations
during the first year.
Each Rotation entails completion of a meaningful project. The Professor
in charge of the host research unit will assign the project topic, taking into
account the interests of the student and the capabilities of the research
unit. In the course of each rotation the student is required to:
i. Write a rotation project proposal,
ii. Complete the proposed project in the research unit,
iii. Make an oral presentation to the research unit members,
and
iv. Submit a written report on the project.
Rotations are evaluated by the Professor in charge of the research unit,
and the student’s report together with the evaluation is forwarded to the
Academic Services Section. The student’s progress and performance in
each Rotation will be discussed in the Curriculum and Examination
Committee to ensure cooperation among faculty members in facilitating
individual student progress.
5.3.7.
PhD Thesis Proposal
Students are required to complete a PhD Thesis Proposal with a point value of 1
point. Students will normally begin work on their PhD Thesis Proposal at the start
of the second year, in the Research Unit where they intend to conduct their thesis
research. The Thesis Supervisor will provide research guidance and the students will
undertake preliminary thesis work. The PhD Thesis Proposal will comprise:
i
ii

iii

an in-depth literature review on the subject of the proposed thesis,
a write-up of an independent research project undertaken in the
research unit. The independent research project is developed by the
student, under the guidance of the Thesis Supervisor. The student
should complete this piece of independent research using the
methods available in the Research Unit, collect and analyze data or
develop theoretical work, and write up in the prescribed format
[link: TBC].
A proposed topic for thesis research. This should constitute a
research question and outline of the aims, methods and significance
of the proposed research. It would normally use the independent
ch05_graduate-school-handbook_en_20180127_cl

research project as preliminary evidence in support of the proposed
research, but the student may also choose a different topic for the
thesis.
These three parts will normally be completed in sequence and submitted one at the
end of each term to the provisional Thesis Committee. The committee will give
feedback and the student will make necessary revisions. The completed PhD Thesis
Proposal, including the literature review, write-up of independent research, and
proposed thesis research, will be submitted to the Academic Services Section by the
closing date set by the Graduate School and will form part of the assessment for
progression to thesis research.
5.3.8. Workload
The maximum the number of courses that can be taken in any one term is four.
However, students will not normally take more than two Basic or Advanced Courses
per term, in order to leave time for independent studies, reading, and research work
during Rotations.
5.3.9.

Overview of order of study
Year 1
i
Appointment of Academic mentor
ii
Course plan for Year 1 and Year 2 prepared (including
rotations)
iii
Professional Development I.
iv
Complete approved Basic Courses and Advanced Courses if
appropriate.
v
Three Rotations.
(See separate note regarding additional professional development courses.)
Year 2
i
ii
iii
iv
v
vi

Prepare PhD Thesis Proposal.
Complete approved Advanced Courses and additional Basic
courses as needed.
Professional Development Ⅱ commences.
Nominate PhD Thesis Committee members.
Submit nominating forms and thesis proposal.
Oral qualifying examination for progression to PhD thesis
research conducted.

Years 3-5
i
ii
iii

Thesis research.
Professional Development II.
Workshop Courses.

ch05_graduate-school-handbook_en_20180127_cl

Examination of thesis
i Notification of intention to submit Thesis
ii Thesis Examination Committee nominated.
iii Thesis submitted
iv Thesis presentation and oral examination conducted at
OIST.
5.3.10. Course advising
The particular selection of courses taken by any student is based on their educational
background, intentions, and experience. Apart from mandatory Professional
Development courses, there are no compulsory course requirements.
In such a flexible program, in which each student has an individualized program,
excellent advice in course selection from an experienced advisor is essential. To
provide this advice each student will have an independent Academic Mentor.
5.3.10.1.
Appointment of Academic Mentor
An Academic Mentor (also called General Advisor) is assigned to each
student from the time of admission. The Academic Mentor is required to
work carefully with the student to select courses and Research Rotations
that reinforce the foundations of the field of study and also provide the
breadth of study necessary to develop the ability to collaborate effectively
across traditional boundaries. The Academic Mentor for each student will
be appointed by the Dean of the Graduate School, with advice from the
Academic Services Section. The Academic Mentor should have the
following characteristics:
i Significant prior experience in course advising and
supervision of graduate thesis research. New Faculty may
gain experience in course advising and supervision by
serving on thesis committees as a committee member.
ii High level of competence in the field, able to give advice to
the student on the choice of courses that will prepare them
for their PhD thesis research.
iii Be a disinterested party charged with working for the best
interests of the student
The Academic Mentor will continue to play a general mentoring role for
the duration of the student’s studies at OIST. The Academic Mentor
cannot also be the same student’s Thesis Supervisor. If a student elects to
undertake their thesis research in the research unit of the Academic
Mentor, a new Academic Mentor shall be appointed.

ch05_graduate-school-handbook_en_20180127_cl

5.3.10.2.
Duties of Academic Mentor in development of Course Plan
The Academic Mentor and student together will formulate a plan of
courses and Rotations for the first two years. The course plan will take
into account any previously established credits, specific experience and
research interests of the student. The Academic Mentor will guide the
students to choose Rotations that include exposure to both experimental
and theoretical approaches, and an interdisciplinary experience.
5.3.10.3.
Approval of Course Plan
The course plan will be submitted to the Dean of the Graduate School on
the required form [link: ]. Each individual’s course plan will be finally
approved by the Dean of the Graduate School.
5.3.10.4.
Approval of Research Rotations
Research Rotations are approved by the Dean of the Graduate School
taking into account the student preferences, and availability of rotations.
5.3.10.5.
Course assessment
Each course will be assessed as specified in the course schedules [link:
http://groups.oist.jp/ja/grad/course-info]. Examiners may examine by
means of written, practical, or oral test, or by continuous assessment, or
by any combination of these. Examination scripts and reports must be
written in English.
A student who is unable to complete an assessment because of genuine
impairment may be permitted by the Dean of the Graduate School to
complete a supplementary assessment. In such cases an application for
special consideration must be submitted within 48 hours of the
assessment on the appropriate form [link: ].
There shall be no appeal against examination results. However,
complaints about examination results will be considered by the Dean of
the Graduate School and scripts will be checked for errors in marking. If
errors are detected marks may be corrected up or down with the
agreement of the examiner.
Formal assessment of courses will be coordinated by the Academic
Services section. The dates of examinations and due dates of major items
of assessment will be coordinated to avoid timetable clashes. Such dates
will be fixed at the start of each academic year and students will be
advised of the examination and assessment timetable at the start of the
year.
Examination questions must be provided to Academic Services at least
one month prior to the examination for preparation of examination

ch05_graduate-school-handbook_en_20180127_cl

papers. Examinations will be invigilated. Entry to the examination rooms
will only be permitted for candidates enrolled in the course.
5.3.10.6.
Monitoring of student progress and student mentoring
In the first two years, before confirmation of the student to progress to
thesis research, the Academic Mentor will meet regularly with the student
to discuss progress or problems with Courses and Rotations. The grades
obtained in courses will be reported to the Academic Mentor and
Curriculum and Examination Committee by Academic Services. In cases
of difficulty the Academic Mentor will organize help and support for the
individual student as needed. If difficulties continue the Academic
Mentor has the responsibility of alerting the Dean of the Graduate School,
who may initiate proceedings related to poor progress or performance.
(Chapter 5.11.2 [link: 5.11.2])
5.3.11. Qualifying for progression to PhD thesis research
Before commencing PhD thesis research all OIST graduate students will be
evaluated by the Curriculum and Examination Committee to determine if they are
qualified for PhD thesis work. To initiate this process the student prepares the PhD
Thesis Proposal, as described in Section [link: 5.3.7.] after selecting a Thesis
Supervisor(s) and Research Unit, and nominates a Thesis Supervisor and Thesis
Committee. The Thesis Proposal, Thesis Supervisor, and Thesis Committee must be
formally approved by the Dean of the Graduate School before the student
commences thesis research.
5.3.11.1.
Nomination of Thesis Supervisor, and Thesis Committee
All students will be required to have a Thesis Committee - irrespective of
the seniority of the Thesis Supervisor - to provide oversight of the thesis
research supervision. The Thesis Committee will comprise the Thesis
Supervisor (or cosupervisors if there is more than one supervisor), the
Academic Mentor, and another faculty member selected by the Dean of
the Graduate School in consultation with the student and Thesis
Supervisor. The student is responsible for nominating the Thesis
Supervisor and may suggest names for the third Thesis Committee
Member. The Academic Services section will provide guidance and
assistance to students in relation to this process.
PhD Thesis Supervisors must be full-time faculty members. Adjunct and
visiting faculty members may be cosupervisors or Thesis Committee
members. Faculty external to the university may be cosupervisors or
Thesis Committee members provided an institutional agreement exists
with the university of the external faculty member. Information about
such agreements is available from Academic Services.

ch05_graduate-school-handbook_en_20180127_cl

5.3.11.2.
Process for approval of Thesis Supervisor/s and Thesis
Committee members
In consultation with the intended PhD Thesis Supervisor, Academic
Mentor and prospective members of the Thesis Committee the student
completes the form for nominating Thesis Supervisors and Thesis
Committee members [link: TBC] and submits it along with the Thesis
Proposal to the Dean of the Graduate School. If the proposed Thesis
Supervisor is the same person as the Academic Mentor, a new Academic
Mentor will be appointed by the Dean of the Graduate School to avoid
any conflict of interest.
5.3.11.3.
Evaluation for progression to PhD thesis research
The purpose of evaluating qualification for progression to PhD thesis
research is to determine whether the student has an adequate
fundamental knowledge in the field or fields of study relevant to the
thesis topic, and can organize, apply and convey that knowledge
effectively. The Curriculum and Examinations committee will make this
evaluation taking into account the completed program of study and the
student’s performance in courses and rotations at OIST, the thesis
proposal, and the candidate’s performance in an examination. The thesis
proposal forms an important part of the evaluation. The thesis proposal
must be the student’s independent work and clearly show the original
contribution of the student to the research question. The evaluation may
occur when requested by the candidate and normally before the end of
the second year of study, and at the latest within 12 months of the start of
Preliminary Thesis Research. When evaluating the candidate the
Curriculum and Examinations committee will consider the following
materials:
1. The student’s PhD Thesis proposal. The requirements for the proposal
are separately described (5.3.7).
2. A report from the examining panel as separately described (5.3.11.4).
3. The student’s academic record at OIST.
4. Write-ups of Rotations.
5. An Endorsement of the thesis proposal from the proposed thesis
supervisor, the student’s academic mentor, and other members of the
intended thesis committee, on the prescribed Thesis Proposal
Submission Cover Sheet ［link］
6. Further material deemed relevant to the evaluation.
The Curriculum and Examinations committee will reach one of the
three decisions listed below and record the decision in the student’s
academic record:
i.

Passed. The candidate is advanced to candidacy. The committee

ch05_graduate-school-handbook_en_20180127_cl

may require additional course work or stipulate minor revisions to the
thesis proposal.
ii. Deferred. This outcome is possible only if the student’s academic
preparation is sufficient, and the thesis proposal is not acceptable in its
present form but could be acceptable pending major revisions. The
thesis proposal must be re-examined in a second oral examination after
which the committee must reach a decision of either passed or failed.
The committee will stipulate a deadline for submission of a revised
proposal and date of re-examination. If the candidate fails to resubmit
by the deadline the outcome will change to fail.
iii. Failed. This is the outcome when academic preparation is not
sufficient or the thesis proposal is not suitable for re-examination, or
has not met the required standard on re-examination. No reexamination is allowed in the case of a fail outcome.
Procedures for appeal against the outcome of the evaluation are
separately described (5.3.11.7).
5.3.11.4.
Examination and defence of thesis proposal
An examining panel comprises three members: an external examiner, an
internal examiner, and a chair appointed by the Curriculum and
Examination committee. The examining panel will conduct a three-hour
oral examination that will include a defense of the thesis proposal. The
examining panel will include an External Examiner who is expert in the
field of the proposed thesis and external to OIST. Normally the
examination will be conducted in person at OIST but if this is not possible
the Dean of the Graduate School may permit electronic participation by
audiovisual link. The Curriculum and Examinations Committee appoints
the External Examiner taking into account nominations provided by the
proposed supervisor. Similar conflicts of interest precaution apply as
outlined in 5.3.13.2 below. The examining panel also includes an OIST
faculty member familiar with the out-of-field postgraduate courses taken
by the student at OIST, who is appointed by the Curriculum and
Examinations committee. A member of the Curriculum and
Examinations committee nominated by the Dean of the Graduate School
will chair the examining panel. The examining panel will not include the
proposed thesis supervisor or student’s mentor.
Half of the examination will be an oral defense of the thesis proposal. The
student will be required to demonstrate the necessary advanced
knowledge and understanding to undertake the proposed thesis research,
and show their original and independent contribution to the proposal.
The other half of the examination will cover fundamental knowledge in
the field or fields of the proposed thesis research. The candidate should
demonstrate fundamental knowledge of sufficient scope and depth to
provide a secure foundation. The examining panel will take into account
ch05_graduate-school-handbook_en_20180127_cl

the recommendations of the proposed thesis supervisor concerning the
scope and depth of the knowledge required, which will be communicated
to the examiner and student through the Curriculum and Examinations
Committee. On the advice of the Committee the oral examination may be
supplemented by a written examination conducted before the oral
examination.
5.3.11.5.

Exit with MSc (“Non-continuation” outcome of evaluation for
progression).

A student who, after evaluation for progression to PhD thesis research,
fails to meet requirements for progression to PhD thesis research may
submit a thesis for consideration for award of the MSc degree in
accordance with Article 37, paragraph 3 of the University Rules. An MSc
may be awarded if the candidate has successfully completed the following
minimum requirements:
i. at least 30 points (20 from courses, 10 from research work),
ii. submission of a thesis describing their own research work at a level
judged to be suitable for the award of MSc by a panel of examiners
including at least one external examiner.
There is a time limit in such cases. The student must achieve the
necessary course credits and submit their MSc Thesis for examination
within six months of being informed of the outcome of the Evaluation.
The examining panel will include an external examiner, an internal
examiner, and a chair appointed for this purpose by the Curriculum and
Examination committee. The examiners will examine the written thesis
and submit a report within 3 months of receipt of the thesis, including a
recommendation of either “passed” or “failed”. The Curriculum and
Examination committee reviews the recommendation and considers
whether all academic requirements for the award of the degree have been
satisfied. In the case of a “pass” outcome the procedures for conferment
of the degree (5.3.15) shall be followed. In the case of a “fail” outcome the
Individual Student Record shall be updated with an entry on the next day,
stating that the outcome is “fail ” . At the time when the individual
Student Record is updated, the candidate is sent a letter advising of the
outcome.
5.3.11.6. Exit with MSc prior to progression to PhD thesis research
Under exceptional circumstances, when deemed necessary by the Dean
of the Graduate School, a student who, prior to evaluation for progression
to PhD thesis research, requests early exit from the program may be
allowed to submit a thesis for award of the MSc degree in accordance with
Article 37, paragraph 3 of the University Rules. Early exit must be

ch05_graduate-school-handbook_en_20180127_cl

requested within two years of enrolment and approved by the Dean of the
Graduate School. An MSc may be awarded if the candidate successfully
completes the following minimum requirements:
i. At least 30 points (20 from courses, 10 from research work).
ii. Submission of a thesis describing their own research work at a level
judged to be suitable for the award of MSc by a panel of examiners
including at least one external examiner.
iii. Having been enrolled in the University for at least two years.
The student must achieve the necessary course credits and submit their
MSc Thesis for examination before the end of the third year of enrolment.
The examining panel will include an external examiner, an internal
examiner, and a chair appointed for this purpose by the Curriculum and
Examination committee. The examiners will examine the written thesis
and submit a report within 3 months of receipt of the thesis, including a
recommendation of either “passed” or “failed”. The Curriculum and
Examination committee reviews the recommendation and considers
whether all academic requirements for the award of the degree have been
satisfied.
5.3.11.7. Appeals procedure
A student who has failed the qualifying examination (or MSc thesis
examination) may lodge an appeal. Grounds for appeal include incorrect
application of the procedures, but objections to the evaluations in the
assessment by the examiners, the decision of the Curriculum and
Examinations Committee, and the composition of the examining panel
are not a basis for appeal. The qualifying examination is a confidential
process, and this confidentiality must be maintained throughout any
appeals process. The appeal must be in writing, include a concise
statement of the reasons for the appeal, and be lodged with the Manager,
Academic Services, within 28 days of the date of the letter advising the
outcome of the qualifying examination. The appeal will be referred to the
Dean of Faculty Affairs, who will determine the course of action to be
undertaken, taking into consideration the grounds for the appeal stated
by the candidate. This may include a review of the examination process.
The Dean of Faculty Affairs will determine the outcome of the appeal as
either:
i.The procedures for the qualifying examination were applied correctly,
and the appeal is unsuccessful.
ii.The procedures for the qualifying examination were not applied
correctly, but the variation in procedures did not influence the
outcome of the examination, and the appeal is unsuccessful.
iii.The procedures for the qualifying examination were not applied
correctly, and the variation in procedures did influence the outcome of
the examination, and the appeal is successful. In this case, the Dean of
ch05_graduate-school-handbook_en_20180127_cl

Faculty Affairs will determine further action to be taken, which may
include re-examination.
The outcome of the appeal will be determined within 28 days of the date
the written appeal was received by the Office of Academic Services.
5.3.12. Monitoring the student’s progress in research
From the commencement of the thesis research period, the Thesis Supervisor will
take primary responsibility for monitoring progress of the student, assisted by the
Thesis Committee. The Academic Mentor will continue to act as a support person
and an advisor who can act in a confidential manner in case of problems between
the student and the Thesis Supervisor.
5.3.12.1.
Research progress reports
Confirmed students are required to submit an annual progress report on
the progress of the student’s thesis research. The student will prepare the
report, which will be endorsed by all members of the Thesis Committee,
and forwarded to the Dean of the Graduate School.
Satisfactory progress is required for continuation in the program. In case
of lack of progress or poor quality of research, the Dean of the Graduate
School may intervene and suggest solutions. If the lack of progress or
poor quality of research continues, the Dean of the Graduate School may,
in consultation with the Curriculum and Examination Committee, order
discontinuation.
5.3.12.2.
Discontinuation
A candidature may be discontinued:
iif academic progress is not satisfactory; or
iiif the student has failed to meet the requirements as stipulated
elsewhere [link: 5.4. ].
5.3.13. Ph.D Degree Completion
The Ph.D. degree is conferred by the University in recognition of completion by the
candidate of original research that makes a significant contribution to scientific
knowledge. The degree is not awarded for completion of certain courses or a fixed
period of enrolment, or for directed work as a technician. The work for the degree
consists of original research and systematic studies that advance knowledge,
conducted by the candidate with an appropriate degree of independence. In
addition, the candidate must demonstrate the ability to communicate the results of
their research and scholarship effectively in both oral and written English. The
candidate must present their work in a thesis and defend it in an oral examination.
A candidate may not submit for examination work that has been included in a thesis
or dissertation that has been previously submitted towards a degree qualification.
Course credit requirements are listed in PRP 5.3.13.7.

ch05_graduate-school-handbook_en_20180127_cl

5.3.13.1.
Thesis Requirements
The thesis must present original research that makes a significant
contribution to scientific knowledge. The thesis must form a coherent
narrative that includes a statement of the problem, a scholarly review of
the relevant literature, and must present, in detail, the methods, results,
discussion and conclusions of the research. A collection of published
articles, irrespective of their impact on science, falls well short of what
will be considered acceptable. The thesis must be formatted in chapters
and submitted according to the OIST Guidelines on the Preparation of
Theses (“Guidelines”).
Candidates are strongly advised to publish peer-reviewed articles in
international journals based on their thesis work in a timely fashion and
preferably before submitting the thesis. Such publication of thesis
research is evidence of a significant scientific contribution that will be
taken into account by thesis examiners, and is essential for future career
prospects. Published, archived or submitted articles may be included in
an appendix of the thesis. In the absence of a published, archived or
submitted article, the thesis should append at least one manuscript,
drafted by the candidate, of publication quality and ready for journal
submission.
When papers based on work completed as part of the PhD thesis are
submitted, are in press, or in print, it may be possible to modify and
include material from them as chapters in the thesis, providing that the
thesis as a whole presents a coherent account of the research. For details
concerning these matters refer to the Guidelines.
5.3.13.2.
Final Examination
A candidate is examined both on the written thesis and in an oral
examination.
The examination process is strictly confidential.
The candidate must submit to the Graduate School written Notice of
Intent to Submit a Thesis with enough time for the examination to be
arranged before the proposed submission date.
The Graduate School will provide guidance on the time required in each
case. Before submission of the thesis, the Graduate School must confirm
that the course credits necessary for graduation have been completed.
If there are insufficient course credits, the required additional credits
must be completed before the final examination.
5.3.13.3.
Appointment of the Thesis Examination Panel
After receiving the Notice of Intent to Submit a Thesis, the Curriculum
and Examinations Committee (CEC) will appoint thesis examiners from
within and outside the University, to form a Thesis Examination Panel,
as follows:

ch05_graduate-school-handbook_en_20180127_cl

i.
Two Examiners selected from two different working-countries, who
are expert in the field of the proposed thesis and external to OIST. The
CEC appoints the examiners taking into account nominations provided
by the Thesis Supervisor. The CEC is responsible for determining if the
nominated examiner is expert in the field of the proposed thesis research,
taking into account the publications of the examiner in international peer
reviewed journals.
ii.
A Chair selected from the OIST faculty members with knowledge
OIST standards and regulations concerning PhD thesis examinations.
The Thesis Supervisor is responsible for ensuring that the nominated
examiners meet the specified conditions. The Academic Services Section
of the Graduate School is responsible for checking that the specified
conditions are satisfied. If the conditions are not satisfied, the
nomination shall not be submitted to the CEC, and the Supervisor shall
be advised on the grounds for declining the examiner and asked to
nominate a new examiner by the Academic Services Section.
The CEC may alternatively appoint an examiner who has not been
nominated by the Supervisor.
5.3.13.3.1 Conflicts of interest in examinations
The CEC will not appoint examination panel members who have
or appear to have conflicts of interest.
For OIST faculty
members, a conflict of interest is deemed to exist if the faculty
member is involved in the supervision of the thesis research of the
candidate, or is collaborating in the research project of the
candidate. For non-OIST faculty members a conflict of interest is
deemed to exist if they:
i.
Are involved in the research
ii.
Have current collaborations with members of the thesis
laboratory, or previous collaborations in the past 5 years.
iii. Have had prior or ongoing contact with the supervisor that
may appear to compromise objectivity, such as having been in the
same department as the supervisor, having been a thesis or
postdoctoral supervisor (or vice versa), or having joint
publications or grants with the supervisor in the past 5 years
iv.
Have had prior contact with the candidate that may appear
to compromise objectivity, such as having been in the same
department as the candidate, having supervised the candidate in
academic or project work, or having joint publications or grants
with the candidate at any time.
5.3.13.4.

Examination of the Written Thesis

ch05_graduate-school-handbook_en_20180127_cl

The two external examiners read the thesis, separately prepare a report
and choose a recommendation regarding the acceptability of the thesis
for a PhD from the following:
i.
accept, and proceed to oral examination
ii. accept, and proceed to oral examination (minor revisions required),
iii. revise and resubmit (major revisions requiring reexamination of
the written thesis before proceeding to oral defense),
iv. consider for an MSc degree [see: 5.3.13.4.1],
v.
Fail.
The Chair of the Thesis Examination Panel reviews the recommendations.
Where necessary, the Chair may formally seek advice related to the thesis
research from other OIST faculty with relevant knowledge of the field.
If both examiners recommend either (i) or (ii) the process continues to
the oral examination.
If one or more examiner selects either (iii), (iv) or (v) the Chair convenes
a meeting of the Thesis Examination Panel by teleconference to
determine a recommendation, which is passed to the CEC along with the
examiners’ individual reports. The CEC then decides on the course of
action from among the listed options (above).
If any of the reports is not available prior to the oral examination, the
Chair convenes a meeting of the available members of the Thesis
Examination Panel by teleconference to determine a course of action
from among the listed options (above).
The candidate is provided with copies of the examiners' reports when
they become available.
5.3.13.4.1 Exit with MSc (“Award lesser degree” outcome of PhD
thesis examination)
A candidate who fails to meet requirements for the award of a PhD
may be awarded the degree of MSc on the recommendation of the
Thesis Examination Panel.
5.3.13.5.

Oral Examination

The Thesis Examination Panel conducts the oral examination for up to
three hours in private at OIST.
It is a requirement that all examiners participate in the oral examination.
Exceptionally, if an examiner is not available in Okinawa at a time
convenient for a meeting of the Thesis Examination Panel, the Dean of
the Graduate School can approve remote participation of an examiner by
teleconferencing.
The Thesis Supervisor and members of the Thesis Committee may attend
the oral examination as observers but may not participate in the
examination.

ch05_graduate-school-handbook_en_20180127_cl

After the oral examination the Thesis Examination Panel confers
privately to determine a recommendation from one of the following:
i. PASS
ii. PASS with minor revisions
iii. FAIL
The Chair will prepare a Report to be forwarded to the Dean of the
Graduate School and endorsed by all members of the Thesis Examination
Panel stating their recommendation chosen from the options listed above,
and including relevant points of discussion that contributed to the
decision.
In the case of a “PASS” outcome, the candidate is informed by the Dean
of the Graduate School and must lodge the final version of the thesis with
the Graduate School.
In the case of “PASS with minor revisions” outcome the report specifies
the revisions to be made, which may be by reference to individual
examiner’s reports. The Dean of the Graduate School informs the
candidate of the required revisions. After the candidate has made the
revisions the Chair of the Thesis Examination Panel approves the final
version of the thesis or, if the revisions are unsatisfactory, returns it for
further corrections. If necessary, the Chair may ask the external
examiners to evaluate the revisions. When the final version of the thesis
has been approved, the candidate is informed by the Dean of the
Graduate School and must lodge the final version of the thesis with the
Graduate School.
Students Candidates are required to remain at OIST until the final
version of the thesis has been accepted and lodged with the Graduate
School.
In the case of a "FAIL" recommendation, the Report specifies the reasons
for the outcome and is referred to the CEC. The CEC may decide to
consider for an MSc degree [link: 5.3.13.4.1] or fail the candidate.
A candidate who has failed the thesis examination may lodge an appeal.
The procedures for an appeal are separately stipulated.
5.3.13.6.

Public presentation

There is no requirement for a public defense of the degree thesis as part
of Doctor the examination process. As part of Philosophy. their
professional development candidates are expected to give a final
presentation of their research for the OIST community, but this does not
form part of the examination.
5.3.13.7 Summary of Completion Requirements
In order to graduate with the PhD degree, a candidate must have been
registered as a full-time student for a minimum enrolment period
stipulated in Article 35 of the university rules[link] and successfully met
the following minimum requirements:
i.
completed and passed at least 30 course credits (20
ch05_graduate-school-handbook_en_20180127_cl

credits in case of MSc graduates)
ii.

submitted a PhD thesis for examination,

iii.

obtained a PASS outcome of the Thesis Examination

The academic record for the candidate will record the name of the Thesis
Supervisor and list separately the names of the members of the Thesis
Committee.
A candidate who fails to meet requirements for the award of a PhD may
be considered for the award of a degree of MSc if they have successfully
completed the following minimum requirements:
・at least 30 credits
・submission of a thesis describing their own research work at a level
judged to be suitable for the award of MSc by a panel of external and
internal examiners.
5.3.13.8 Appeals procedure
Appeals will be managed by the process stipulated in 5.3.11.7.
[link: http://www.oist.jp/policy-library/5.3.11.7]
5.3.14. Prizes
The graduate university may establish prizes.
5.3.15. Graduation

5.3.15.1.

Conferment of Degree

After the Curriculum and Examinations Committee has determined that
all academic requirements for the award of the degree have been satisfied,
the student shall submit a bound copy of his or her thesis, with all
required corrections completed, to the University library, together with
an electronic copy for the University record.
On confirmation of receipt of the electronic file of thesis, the secretary of
the Curriculum and Examinations Committee passes to the faculty
assembly

the

recommendation

to

award

the

degree.

The

recommendation shall be sent electronically. If there are no objections
within three working days, the recommendation shall be considered as
having been confirmed by the Faculty Assembly. In the case that there

ch05_graduate-school-handbook_en_20180127_cl

are valid objections the matter shall be put on the agenda for the next
Faculty Assembly meeting, and the student and members of the thesis
committee shall be informed. The Dean of the Graduate School shall
prepare a recommendation for the Faculty Assembly after hearing the
nature of the objection.
Once the Faculty Assembly has approved the recommendation, the
minutes of the Faculty Assembly hold a record of the names of the
candidates, the date, and title of the thesis. The Individual Student
Record shall be updated with an entry by the end of the month in which
the Faculty Assembly approved, stating that all requirements for the
degree have been satisfied and the degree has been conferred. The record
includes the date, the title of the thesis, the name of the Thesis Supervisor,
and the names of the members of the Thesis Committee.
At the time when the individual Student Record is updated, the candidate
is sent a letter confirming that the degree has been conferred and that the
candidate may graduate at the next graduation ceremony or “in absentia”.
The degree certificate is presented by the President at the graduation
ceremony. A student who chooses to graduate in absentia is provided
with the degree certificate after the graduation ceremony. The format of
the certificate is as per Form 1 (for PhD Degree) and Form 2 (for MSc
Degree) ［link］.
When the President of the Graduate University has conferred a Doctoral
degree, it shall be reported to the Minister of Education, Culture, Sports,
Science and Technology, and the summary of the contents of the thesis
and the summary of the results of the thesis examination shall be
publicized on the internet within 3 months following the day of the
conferment of the Doctoral degree.
When a Doctoral degree is conferred, the entire text of the thesis related
to the conferment of the Doctoral degree shall be published within one
year following the day of the conferment of the Doctoral degree; provided
however, that this shall not apply to the thesis published prior to the
conferment of the Doctoral degree. The student may request that the full

ch05_graduate-school-handbook_en_20180127_cl

text not be published, and instead only publish a summary of the
contents of the thesis in lieu of the entire text of thesis when there is
significant reason and with approval of the Dean of the Graduate School.
In this case, the University will make available for inspection the entire
text of the thesis in response to a request, in hard copy and on University
library premises. When deemed necessary for intellectual property
protection or other reasons, this inspection will be subject to a nondisclosure agreement. When the Dean of the Graduate School judges that
the significant reason no longer exists, the entire text of thesis related to
the conferment of the Doctoral degree shall be published through the
medium specified by the university.

5.3.15.2.

Honorary Degree of Doctor of Science

5.3.15.2.1
Policy
The OIST Honorary Doctor of Science (DSc) Degree recognizes
those who have made profound and enduring contributions to
scholarship, culture, or improved quality of life in society, and who
either have a real and substantial relationship with the OIST
Graduate University or whose work has had a major impact for
OIST. It is important that recipients be persons of great integrity,
as the choices we make reflect our values as an institution. The
Honorary DSc Degree is awarded to the recipient in person at the
Graduation Ceremony at the OIST Campus. The Honorary DSc
Degree may not be awarded in absentia.
5.3.15.2.2
Degree Awarded
Honorary Doctor of Science
5.3.15.2.3
Procedures
Nominations or suggestions for Honorary Degrees may be sent
direct to the Chair of the Honorary Degrees Committee by any
member of the University community. Nominations will normally
be considered by the Committee three months before the
Graduation Ceremony.
Nominations for the Honorary Degree are considered by the
Honorary Degree Committee, which makes recommendations to
the President. Nominations are made on the Honorary Degree
Nomination Form[Link]. If the nomination is supported, and the
President agrees, and the recipient accepts the offer, the Degree is
awarded at the next Graduation Ceremony.
5.3.15.2.4

Honorary Degree Committee

The Honorary Degrees Committee consists of the Dean of
Research, who chairs the committee, the Dean of Faculty Affairs,

ch05_graduate-school-handbook_en_20180127_cl

the Dean of the Graduate School, and the Chair of the Faculty
Assembly. The duty of the Committee is to select persons to be
recommended in writing to the president for the Honorary Degree.
The final decision is made by the president, who is not bound by
the recommendation.
5.3.15.2.5

Confidentiality

It is important from the beginning of the process of nomination
through to the point at which a decision is reached and the
successful candidates have been invited by the President, that a
high level of confidentiality be maintained.
5.3.15.2.6

Format of Nominations

(i) a supporting submission which contains an introductory
statement providing the grounds for the award;
(ii) a brief account of the nominee’s life and work;
(iii) an outline of the nominee’s most significant academic or other
achievements;
(iv) an assessment of his/her international standing;
(v) OIST connection or link, or if none any tangible association
with our values; and
(vi) any other information the proposer would wish to bring to the
attention of the Committee. If relevant, nominations should be
accompanied by details of the nominees’ published works in an
Appendix.

ch05_graduate-school-handbook_en_20180127_cl

5.3.15.3.

Graduation Ceremony

The University holds an annual Graduation Ceremony, to which all
eligible PhD graduates from the preceding year are invited. The President
will present those graduates in attendance at the ceremony with their
degree certificates in the presence of the assembled faculty of the
University. Graduates who choose to graduate in absentia will be
mentioned at the ceremony and their certificate will be sent to them by
mail.
OIST official academic dress comprises a black gown with red border and
white piping, together with a black velvet tam and tassel. PhD graduates
of the OIST Graduate University augment the university gown and tam
with a hood, presented at the graduation ceremony. Academic dress is
made available by the Graduate School for rent or purchase by faculty
members, students, and graduates. The rental fee covers cleaning and
other costs, while the purchase cost reflects the actual cost of academic
dress manufacture. Graduating students may elect to rent for the
graduation ceremony and purchase at a later date. Academic dress
rentals are not permitted for off-site use.
Under the OIST travel rules, the Graduate School will pay for airfare for
the OIST graduates attending the ceremony to receive their degree
certificate. In addition, the Graduate School will cover the cost of guest
rooms in Seaside House for the graduates and family members for their
accommodation if available.
5.3.16. Student professional development
5.3.16.1.
Careers Advice
The OIST Graduate School has a dedicated Careers Development
Coordinator in the Admissions and Career Development Section. The Careers
Development Coordinator provides individual careers advice, as well as
help with CV and resume writing, job searching and career exploration to
students.
5.3.16.2.
Teaching Assistantship
The OIST Graduate School offers OIST PhD students and Special
Research Students opportunities to gain experience and develop skills as
Teaching Assistants. Teaching Assistants may contribute to various
educational activities such as:
ch05_graduate-school-handbook_en_20180127_cl

1.
Assisting an OIST faculty member in the delivery of an official OIST
Graduate School course. Teaching Assistants may contribute in activities
such as laboratory classes and tutorials and preparation of materials
under the supervision of the faculty member. It is expected that the OIST
faculty member is present for the scheduled teaching hours to provide
mentoring and quality control; this should not be used to replace faculty
in teaching. Selection as a Teaching Assistant for a course is decided by
the faculty member in charge of the course.
2.
Acting as tutors in OIST International Workshops and Courses, or
in preparatory or remedial courses for OIST students. Selection is
decided by the faculty member in charge of the Workshop or Course.
3.
Contributing to educational outreach activities such as open
campus, school visits, children’s science. Selection is decided by the
organizer of the outreach activity.
4.
Assisting in educational activities at other universities, by
agreement between the universities. Selection is decided by the graduate
school in consultation with the other university.
5.
Assisting in other educational activities organized by the Graduate
School.
Teaching experience is important for an academic career. The graduate
school will keep a record of Teaching Assistant activity for each student.
A record of teaching experience will form part of the Professional
Development course requirements.
Teaching Assistants are expected to prepare thoroughly for their teaching
activity by reading all materials and studying necessary background.
Preparation of material may be required. Attendance at training provided
as part of Professional Development courses is also expected. Because of
the course requirements in the first years of the PhD program, Teaching
Assistants will normally only be appointed after successfully completing
their qualifying examination.
Students wishing to apply for Teaching Assistant appointments should
discuss their request with the faculty member or organizer of educational
activity and submit a completed Teaching Assistant Application Form to
the Student Support desk. This form is necessary for recording the
Teaching Assistant activity of each student. The form should detail the
contact hours and be signed by the proposed supervisor. A CV should be
attached.

ch05_graduate-school-handbook_en_20180127_cl

Service as a Teaching Assistant is normally unpaid because students
receive financial support by other mechanisms. Exceptional cases and
other necessary items are separately stipulated.

5.3.17. Leave of Absence and Holidays
Research study in the Graduate School is considered a year-round activity that
continues between teaching terms. A student who wishes to be absent from Okinawa
and / or the approved course of study and research, or who proposes to take
vacation, shall be required to submit a written application for leave of absence.
There are four types of leave of absence, namely, Annual Leave, Study Leave, Nonstudy Leave and Special Leave. Apart from Sick Leave, a student must seek and
receive approval BEFORE going on leave.
5.3.17.1.
Annual Leave
In addition to University Holidays (5.3.17.5), Students are granted 20
days of Annual Leave per Academic Year, adjusted pro rata from their
first day, or 10 days if the entire period of study is less than one year. At
the start of each Academic Year thereafter, students are granted an
additional 20 days Annual Leave. For students taking courses, this leave
must be taken in the designated break periods between terms; Annual
Leave will not usually be approved during term. For students engaged in
thesis research work, the approval of the Thesis Supervisor (or in the case
of Special Research Students, the University supervisor) is required for
Annual Leave, which may be taken during term time. Annual Leave newly
granted and not used in the current year will be carried over to the
following year. The carried over Annual Leave must be used prior to the
Annual Leave newly granted in the following year.
5.3.17.2.
Study Leave
A student may be granted Study Leave for the purposes of study while
taking approved courses at other institutions outside Okinawa. A student
may be granted Study Leave for the purpose of research outside Okinawa
only at a partner institution with which the University has entered into a
formal exchange agreement. Any period of Study Leave granted shall be
counted towards the period of study. Conference, summer school and
workshop attendance outside Okinawa, and field work are not normally
considered as Study Leave but as a business trip.
5.3.17.3.
Non-study leave
A student may request or be asked to take Non-study Leave when he /
she is best advised for personal, health, or other reasons to have time
completely away from his / her academic responsibilities. Under no
circumstances shall leave of absence under this category be granted on
each occasion or cumulatively for a period of more than two years for the
ch05_graduate-school-handbook_en_20180127_cl

entire period of study. Any period of Non-study Leave granted shall result
in the extension of the period of study by the period of absence.
5.3.17.4.
Special Leave
Students may be granted Special Leave for a variety of reasons with
approval by the Graduate School. The table below indicates acceptable
reasons and length of leave:
Category
1

Sick Leave

2

Marriage

3

Funeral

Reason
Unable to work due to injury or
illness. Medical certificate is
necessary when more than 2
consecutive days are taken.
Extension beyond 6 days is
considered to be Non-study
Leave, with approval.

Period
2 to 6 days

•

The Student

Up to 5 days

•

Child of a student

Up to 2 days

•

Sibling of a student

1 day

•

Parent, spouse, or child of
the student

Up to 7 days

•

Grandparent, sibling, or
spouse’s parent

Up to 5 days

•

Relatives other than above
within the third degree

Up to 3 days

4

Maternity

Special arrangements for
reduced study load, etc., for
students before and after birth
of their child are available. See
Childbirth Accommodation
Policy, Chapter 5.3.18.

Up to 2 terms

5

Paternity

Special arrangements for
reduced study load, etc., for
students before and after birth
of their child are available. See
Childbirth Accommodation
Policy, Chapter 5.3.18.

Up to 2 terms

•

Wife’s delivery of child

Up to 3 days

•

To provide care to a new

Up to 5 days

ch05_graduate-school-handbook_en_20180127_cl

born baby or for another
child of the same family
who has not entered
elementary school during
the period from 8 weeks (14
weeks for multiple
pregnancies) before the
expected date of wife’s
delivery to 6 weeks after the
actual date of delivery.
6

Child
Medical
Care

To provide care to a child who has
not entered elementary school
when the child is sick or injured
or when the child takes
vaccination or medical check-up.

Up to 5 days
for one child
or up to 10
days for two
or more
children per
calendar year

7

Family Care
(Shortterm)

To provide care to a family
member with a condition
requiring care.

Up to 5 days
for one family
member or
up to 10 days
for two or
more family
members per
calendar year

8

Jury Service

To serve as juror or supplemental
juror, or to become a candidate
for jury duty.

Days and
hours
necessary for
the purpose

9

Bone
Marrow
Donor

To register as a bone marrow
donor, or to offer bone marrow to
a person other than family
members, or to take examinations
and hospitalizations required for
bone marrow donors.

Days and
hours
necessary for
the purpose

5.3.17.5 University Holidays
University holidays shall be as follows:
i. Saturdays and Sundays; and
ii. Holidays specified in the Act on National Holidays (Act No. 178 of
1948).

ch05_graduate-school-handbook_en_20180127_cl

iii. Year-end and New Year Holidays (from December 29 to January 3 of
the following year)
iv. The president may specify extraordinary holidays when deemed
necessary.
5.3.18. Childbirth Accommodation Policy
The OIST Graduate University promotes diversity and supports balance in work
and family life. It recognizes the need to accommodate the demands on students
associated with pregnancy, childbirth, and the care of children. The University
encourages women to undertake postgraduate education and supports women who
decide to have children while at graduate school. It also recognizes the demands on
partners who share in the care of a newborn child, on parents who adopt, and
foster parents. The Childbirth Accommodation Policy comprises a set of measures
designed to accommodate these needs, supporting family life during graduate
studies.
The measures are designed to make it possible to maintain the mother’s full-time,
registered student status before and after childbirth, and to facilitate her return to
full participation in class work and research in a seamless manner. It is also
designed to support partners, adoptive and foster parents sharing in the care of a
newborn child.
This policy is intended to complement and not replace the communication and
cooperation between student and academic mentor, thesis supervisor, and course
coordinators in their good-faith efforts to accommodate the new family needs. It is
the intention of this policy to reinforce the importance of that cooperation, and to
provide support where needed to make that accommodation possible. A faculty
member may not discontinue supervising a student’s thesis research on the basis
of the student’s decision to give birth to, adopt or foster a child.
Summary of Provisions of the Childbirth Accommodation Policy
The Childbirth Accommodation Policy has four components:
(1) an Academic Accommodation Period of up to two consecutive academic
terms around the time of the birth, during which the student may postpone
course assignments, examinations, and other academic requirements;
(2) continuation of full-time registration as a graduate student with continued
access to OIST facilities and housing during the Academic Accommodation
Period;
(3) full financial support through the Academic Accommodation Period; and,
(4) leave from regular duties as a Research Assistant in accordance with the
Maternity Leave provisions for Full-time employees, as follows:
Prenatal Leave. Research Assistants who expect to give birth within 6 weeks
(14 weeks for multiple pregnancies) are granted prenatal maternity leave.
When the actual delivery is after the expected delivery date, the additional

ch05_graduate-school-handbook_en_20180127_cl

days are included in the maternity leave.
Postpartum Leave. Research Assistants are granted 8-week paid postpartum
maternity leave after giving birth. In this period, the University may not
require them to work. However, up on their request, the Research Assistant
may return to work for duties approved by a doctor.
Eligibility
The Childbirth Accommodation Policy applies to registered OIST graduate
students, who are anticipating or experiencing a birth, adoption, or delivery by
surrogacy.
An Academic Accommodation Period can be granted to the father of the child or
partner of the mother in cases where graduate student couples share the care of
newborn children and the partner is the primary caregiver for the infant.
An Academic Accommodation Period can also be extended to the new parents after
adoption, fostering a child, or the birth of a biological child using a surrogate to
bring to term.
Planning for the Academic Accommodation Period
The student should initiate discussions with the academic mentor and the Dean of
the Graduate School at least four months prior to the anticipated birth in order to
make arrangements for an Academic Accommodation Period. These discussions
should establish a timeline for academic issues (e.g., class attendance, rotations,
examinations, thesis proposal, and other academic commitments) that will be
affected by the birth of a child and by the postponement of academic requirements.
It is essential that students undertaking thesis research consult with the thesis
supervisor well in advance of the birth. It is the student's responsibility to make
arrangements with faculty and with graduate school administrators for course
completion and for continuation of educational, research and professional
development activities before and after the Academic Accommodation Period.
One of the purposes of the Childbirth Accommodation Policy is to make it possible
for women to maintain their full-time student status. By remaining full-time
students, the visa status of international students is not affected. Careful
consultation should be undertaken to ensure that the implications for academic
progress, visa status, and financial support have been thoroughly investigated. In
completing the application for the Academic Accommodation Period, the student
may optionally request up to two terms of part-time enrolment. If part-time
enrolment status is approved, the student will retain all privileges of the Childbirth
Accommodation Policy. Independent of making this request for part-time
enrolment, if a serious medical problem were to arise for mother or newborn, the
woman student would be eligible for extension of the period of Childbirth
Accommodation Policy until the medical problem is resolved.

ch05_graduate-school-handbook_en_20180127_cl

Residency requirements
The expectation is that the student will be in residence in Okinawa, and, assuming
good health of the pregnant woman or new mother and the infant, will remain
engaged in class work and research, even if at a reduced level.
Childbirth Accommodation Policy for students who are not in
residence
A student may choose to take leave from the Academic Program and not be in
residence for a period of time. In such a case a period of Non-study Leave may be
granted in accordance with the Non-study Leave regulations (ref PRP 5.3.17.3) up
to a maximum of two consecutive academic terms around the time of the birth.
The student may postpone course assignments, examinations, and other academic
requirements during the period of absence and extension of the period of study by
the period of absence. Registration as a graduate student with continued access to
OIST facilities and housing will continue during the Non-study Leave period.
Financial support will be in accordance with the provisions for Full-time
employees for prenatal leave and postpartum leave as detailed in the Maternity
Leave provisions <ref>.
Applying for an Academic Accommodation Period
Graduate students anticipating or experiencing the birth of a child may formally
apply for an Academic Accommodation Period of up to two consecutive academic
terms around the time of the birth. This Academic Accommodation Period is not a
leave of absence from University responsibilities.
The Childbirth Policy is administered by the Office of the Dean of the Graduate
School through an application process. In that application, the student specifies
the dates on which the Academic Accommodation Period begins and ends, with the
requirement that the maximum duration is two consecutive terms. A letter from
the student’s health-care provider stating the anticipated delivery date must
accompany the application. If the childbirth occurs prior to filing the application,
the accommodation period begins on the birth date.
The Office of the Dean of the Graduate School will notify the student, the student’s
academic mentor, and the relevant University administrative offices that the
Academic Accommodation Period has been approved, along with the dates for the
accommodation period.
During and After the Academic Accommodation Period
Funding
Once a student submits an application, the Office of the Dean of the Graduate
School will ensure that students whose applications have been approved will see no
change in their financial support as Research Assistants.

ch05_graduate-school-handbook_en_20180127_cl

Students who are supported by fellowships external to OIST must adhere to the
rules of the granting agency with respect to absences from academic and research
work. If the granting agency requires suspension of fellowship benefits the student
will be eligible for substitute payment from OIST under the terms of a temporary
Research Assistant agreement.
Duration
The student, academic mentor, and thesis supervisor (if applicable) should
recognize that it might not be feasible to return to a regular research assistant
assignment immediately after the accommodation period. In that case,
arrangements should be made to assign limited on-site duties. These issues should
be negotiated sensitively with the student’s needs in mind. The student should
work with the academic mentor, thesis supervisor, and Dean of the Graduate
School to make arrangements for ongoing support beyond the accommodation
period if unable to return to normal duties immediately.
The maximum duration of the Academic Accommodation Period is two
consecutive academic terms. If need extends beyond this limit due to ongoing
issues associated with childbirth, different leave provisions may apply depending
on the nature of the issues. In such case the affected student should make the
situation known to the Dean of the Graduate School as early as possible so that
measures can be taken.
Coursework and Research Activities
Approval of an Academic Accommodation Period will include an automatic
extension of due dates for assignments and other class work and research-related
requirements. Faculty are expected to work with the student to make
arrangements for submitting work for completion of requirements when the
student returns.
Access to the Child Development Center
Students are strongly advised to register, at the earliest possible time, for the
waiting list of the Child Development Center for access to on-campus nursery care
and early childhood education.
Additional Comment
The Childbirth Accommodation Policy establishes minimum standards for
accommodation for a graduate student giving birth or acting as the primary
caregiver for a newborn or adoptive infant. It is expected that academic mentors,
faculty, and the graduate school administration will work with sensitivity and
imagination to provide more than this minimum, according to the particular
circumstances of the student. For example, women whose research involves
working with toxic chemicals or fieldwork may need some form of accommodation
during the entire pregnancy and during lactation. Taking care of an infant is timeconsuming and sleep-depriving, so advisors need to have realistic expectations

ch05_graduate-school-handbook_en_20180127_cl

about rates of progress on research. For their part, new parents need to keep the
lines of communication with their advisors open, and demonstrate to their
advisors that they are academically engaged and making progress on coursework
and research, even if it is at a somewhat slower pace than prior to giving birth. In
other words, the Childbirth Accommodation Policy is intended to support—not
replace—the open communication and good will that should characterize the
relationship between student, mentor and thesis supervisor at the Graduate
University.

5.4.

Student support
5.4.1.
Financial support for students
The mission of OIST is to create an international graduate university that is best in
the world. This requires attracting the best students in the world. Other leading
international universities at this level provide support for tuition costs and living
expenses. The OIST Graduate University offers financial support comparable to that
offered by other leading research universities.
5.4.1.1.
OIST Graduate University Research Assistantship and
Senior Research Assistantship (Assistantships)
OIST Graduate University Research Assistantships and Senior Research
Assistantship (hereafter, Assistantships) are awarded to students on fulltime study in the doctoral program at the OIST Graduate School. A
student in good standing who performs research or who assists others in
performing research and educational activities is registered as a Research
Assistant. A student in a thesis lab after the qualifying exam is registered
as a Senior Research Assistant.
During tenure of the Research Assistant and Senior Research Assistant,
the student must undertake full-time doctoral studies in Okinawa, unless
a special case for exemption from this requirement has been previously
approved by the Graduate School.
The maximum tenure of a Research Assistant is normally two years and
three years for a Senior Research Assistant. Students are expected to
complete the requirements for graduation within the five year period. In
case of early completion of requirements, Senior Research Assistant is
continued for four weeks after the date of degree conferral, to allow time
for completion of matters required for conclusion of the research project
(such as archiving of the research records).
Continued financial support for students in the doctoral program
depends on maintained performance in study and research, and is based
on the provision of satisfactory annual Progress Reports. Assistantships
will be discontinued in the event of unexcused absence, failure to
ch05_graduate-school-handbook_en_20180127_cl

maintain adequate academic performance, unethical behavior, or other
reasons determined by the academic oversight process to be incompatible
with good standing.
Overseas tenure of a Research Assistant and a Senior Research Assistant
is not normally permitted. In exceptional circumstances, a period of
overseas tenure may be granted by the Graduate School, if it can be
shown that access to research guidance, facilities or opportunities
overseas is essential to the completion of the project.
Assistantships are subject to annual confirmation of the Budget status
and are paid in equal monthly installments. Standard remuneration of
the OIST Graduate University Assistantships is about 3.0 million yen per
year including the amount equivalent to tuition fee. However, if the
Research Assistant is awarded for tuition waiver, the amount equivalent
to tuition fee is not provided.
5.4.1.2.
External fellowships and awards
While the University maintains financial support system, students are
strongly encouraged to apply for external fellowships. In order to reward
success, remuneration provided by the university as an OIST Graduate
University Assistantships or Teaching Fellowship including the amount
equivalent to tuition fee may be used to supplement external fellowships,
up to a maximum of 3.6 million yen total. An OIST Graduate University
Assistantships or Teaching Fellowship may be held concurrently with
external scholarship on this basis. There is an obligation on the student
to report external fellowships to the Graduate School office.
5.4.1.2.1. Teaching Fellowship
The University may offer special appointment as a Teaching Fellow to
a student who had been recognized for academic and research
excellence by an external award (JSPS scholarship etc.) In such cases
payment is made on a fixed-hours basis. It is still necessary to record
the teaching activity and hours for the individual academic record.
Students applying for special appointment as a Teaching Fellow
should apply with the required documents through the online web
form.
Appointment of Teaching Fellows will be made by the Curriculum and
Examinations Committee.
Service as a teaching fellow is normally paid. This depends on the
availability of budget, and the nature of the activity. When payment
is possible it is made on an hourly basis for the contact hours and
preparation time. Paid preparation time, when necessary, is based on
a maximum of 4 hours preparation for 1 hour of contact time. Details
ch05_graduate-school-handbook_en_20180127_cl

of the conditions of service are separately stipulated.
5.4.1.2.2. Tuition waiver
The University may offer full amount tuition waiver to those who are
recognized for their excellence in performance of research work by
external awards (JSPS scholar etc.). Students applying for tuition
waiver should apply with required documents through online web
form. Application review and decision making will be made by the
Curriculum and Examination Committee.
5.4.1.3.

Financial Support in Exceptional Circumstances

In general, PhD funding at OIST is only for the standard period of study
which is 5 years. A student who continues to make satisfactory academic
progress in the program should be on course to complete within 5 years,
and progress is reviewed each year to keep on this track. Faculty and
students should plan a program that can be concluded, including writeup of the thesis, prior to the end of the 5th year.
In exceptional circumstances events beyond the control of the student may
compel an extension of the 5 years. In such cases the duration of financial
support may be extended by the Graduate School, subject to the
availability of funds. In all cases, there must be a clear plan for
completion, supported by the Thesis Committee. The following
circumstances may be considered possible grounds for an extension:
1. Delays due to the vicissitudes of research.
Exceptionally, a student who is making satisfactory academic
progress may be unable to complete their thesis research project in
the timeframe due to research-related factors beyond their control.
On the recommendation of the Thesis Committee, and approval of
the Dean of the Graduate School (who may refer the matter to the
Curriculum and Examinations Committee) extension up to 3
additional school terms (started from the beginning of each term
using the terms defined in Article 17 of the University Rules) may be
possible.
2. Change in thesis research laboratory.

ch05_graduate-school-handbook_en_20180127_cl

This may occur because of the departure or incapacity of the
supervisor, or because of a change of supervisor that has been
approved by the graduate school. In such cases, subject to continued
satisfactory academic progress, the financial support may be
extended by the Dean of the Graduate School for the period
necessary to complete the course of study. Continuation is subject
to positive annual academic progress reviews.
3. Other extenuating circumstances.
Where there are other significant extenuating circumstances, the
Dean of the Graduate School may grant an extension of up to three
terms upon request with supporting documentation (e.g. a medical
certificate). The extension shall start from the beginning of each
term using the terms defined in Article 17 of the University Rules.
Students who become responsible for the care of a new born or
newly adopted child in the family may apply for an extension of the
financial support period that takes into account the provisions of the
Childbirth Accommodation Policy [link: ].
Applications for extension of financial support should be made in writing
to the Dean of the Graduate School by the end of the 4th year.

5.4.1.4.
Travel support for educational purposes
The University does not provide grants for home leave. However, the
University provides travel support for visiting an educational institution.
The amount of support will be based on the lowest quote obtained from
the University’s PTAs for a round trip economy flight to the student’s
destination, no per-diem and lodging allowance will be provided.
However, the hotel arrangement due to flight connections can be
considered as a part of this travel support. As long as there is no
hindrance to study and the Research Assistant work, it is possible to take
paid annual leave or other types of leave during the travel period. This
support is available once each year of study. For students who do not yet
have an approved thesis supervisor, the travel is approved by rotation
supervisor and the Dean of the Graduate School. When students do have
an approved thesis supervisor, the thesis supervisor and the Dean of the
Graduate School approve the travel. For details concerning visiting an
educational institution, please refer to the OIST Guidelines for Student
Travel [Link:].

ch05_graduate-school-handbook_en_20180127_cl

5.4.1.5.
Travel grants for students to attend conferences
Rules for travel grants for students to attend conferences and other
educational activities are stipulated in PRP Chapter 29[link: 29]. For
details concerning attending conferences and other educational
activities, please refer to the OIST Guidelines for Student Travel <Link:>
5.4.1.6.

Travel grants for career development

Rules for travel grants for students to attend domestic career events and
other career activities are stipulated in PRP Chapter 29. For details
concerning attending career events and other career activities, please
refer to the OIST Guidelines for Student Travel [Link:].
5.4.1.7.

Relocation

5.4.1.7.1.

Transfer Allowance

Transfer Allowance can be provided stipulated in the table below:
Domestic

36,600 yen

International

62,800 yen

Family relocation allowance:
Spouse & Child 12 years of age or older = 2/3
Child under 12 years of age = 1/3
5.4.1.7.2.
Relocation Expenses
Actual relocation expenses can be reimbursed up to the maximum
level stipulated in the table below:

Maximum level per household
Domestic
International

250,000 yen*
500,000 yen

*350,000 yen if transferring a car from mainland Japan
Reimbursement of relocation expenses can only be provided once.
If a Student voluntarily terminates the agreement within the first
three months, OIST S.C. may request return of the total amount

ch05_graduate-school-handbook_en_20180127_cl

provided. If the termination is due to unavoidable circumstances
(including family health reasons), OIST S.C. may waive the claim
regarding return of the above amount.
5.4.1.8. Commuting
In principle, students who live outside the campus and need to
commute are expected to use the OIST shuttle bus.
5.4.1.8.1 Commuting Allowance
A commuting allowance may be paid to students who live
outside of campus but cannot use the OIST shuttle bus for
reasons deemed valid by the Dean of the Graduate School.
Details on the allowance are stipulated separately by “Rules
Pertaining to a Commuting Allowance for Students” ［link］.
5.4.2. Assistance with visa requirements
The student support section provides assistance with student visas. Students must
have completed visa requirements prior to registration. Students needing assistance
must contact the student support section at least three months prior to registration
dates. Students who do not have a valid student visa cannot be registered.
5.4.3. Student health and welfare
The mission of the student support section is to ensure a worry-free student
experience at OIST. The student support section is the first point of contact for
students in need of assistance.
5.4.3.1.
Student health and counselling
OIST has a Campus Clinic service during working hours. If necessary, the
clinic refers students to local health services. Excellent hospitals and
clinics are available in Okinawa, and assistance with English and other
languages is available.
Counseling services are available as separately described.
5.4.3.2.
Insurance
5.4.3.2.1
Health Insurance
Subscription to National Health Insurance is a mandatory
requirement and the cost will be covered by students. < ref: link to
National Health Insurance info >
5.4.3.2.2
Personal Accident Insurance for Students Pursuing
Education and Research (PAS), and Liability Insurance coupled
with PAS (Gakkensai and Gakkenbai)
All students are covered by Gakkensai and Gakkenbai provided by
Graduate School. <ref: link to Gakkensai and Gakkenbai>.

ch05_graduate-school-handbook_en_20180127_cl

5.4.3.3.
Childcare
Students needing childcare will be eligible to use on-campus earlychildhood education facilities when these become available.
5.4.3.4.
Recreational, cultural and social activities
The student support section supports the welfare of students by
organizing and facilitating recreational, cultural and social activities.
5.4.4. Accommodation
Subsidized accommodation is provided for students living in the Campus Housing.
All students are expected to live in the accommodation provided at least 1 year. If a
student is required to live off-campus due to unavoidable circumstances, such as
shortage of housing in the Campus Housing, the University may lease off-campus
housing for residence of the student. (Please refer Student Rental Housing Rules
[link: ].)
5.4.4.1.

On-Campus Housing

All On-Campus Housings have air conditioning in living room and
bedrooms, and a gas cook-top in the kitchen. Furnished On-Campus
Housings also have a full set of the basic furniture and furnishings needed
for daily life. However, items such as video players, stereos, televisions,
personal computers, etc. are not included. Additional facilities are
available on the first floor of the Village Center including: residents
support desk, linen/dry-cleaning service, convenience store, coin
laundry, gym, clinic, student lounge, common use kitchen with full size
appliances, and meeting/event rooms. A storage locker is provided for
each apartment at street level.
On-Campus Housings are rented on an annual basis (rent is paid monthly
in advance, but contract is for 1 year, and there is no refund for holiday
periods etc.). Utility charges will be the responsibility of the students.
Students will have to pay for electricity, gas, water, plus optional landline
phone, fiber internet, and cable TV if required.
Rents are as follows:
Ap art me nt
t yp e
1 L DK
2 LDK
2 LDK
2 LDK

S in gl e
S in gl e
2 Share*
Family

3L DK

3 Share*

Use

Floor
Are a
45 m 2
70 m 2
70 m 2
70 m 2
100
m2

Net R en t
(Fu rn is h ed )
21 ,6 00 y en /m th
8 0, 00 0 ye n/ mt h
18 ,0 00 y en / mth *
41 , 00 0 ye n/ mt h
Mast er B R:
20 , 00 0 y e n/ mt h*

Net R en t
(U nfu rn is h ed )
13, 60 0 ye n/ mt h
65 ,0 00 y en/ mt h
10, 50 0 ye n/ mt h *
21 ,0 00 y en /m th
Mast er B R:
1 1 , 00 0 y e n/ mt h*

ch05_graduate-school-handbook_en_20180127_cl

Oth er BR :
1 8 ,0 00 y en / mth *

Oth er BR :
1 0, 00 0 ye n/ mt h *

* This applies only when both occupants are students.
Minor change in rates on the order of 10% is possible.
An application for housing should be made on the application form
available from the Facility Management section.
5.4.4.2. Off-Campus Housing
If a student is required to live off-campus due to unavoidable
circumstances, such as shortage of housing in the Campus Housing, the
University may lease off-campus housing for residence of the student.
(Please refer Student Rental Housing Rules.)
5.4.4.3. Payment
Rent, Utilities (if applicable) and other necessary costs will be deducted
from the emolument of the Research Assistantship. Those who do not
have Research Assistantship will be billed.
5.5. Categories of students
The OIST Graduate University recognizes a student body comprising full-time PhD students
registered in the OIST graduate program, and also Special Students who are attending OIST
for educational purposes but not seeking the OIST degree. The Graduate School aims to
ensure an optimal experience for all students at OIST and provides various kinds of support
for students in different categories. The main categories of student defined in Article 43 of the
University Rules [link: ] are (1) Registered OIST PhD Students or (2) Special Students in
several categories.
5.5.1
Registered OIST PhD Students
All provisions concerning students in the OIST PhD Program including financial
support as a Research Assistant, are stipulated in the Graduate School Handbook
Chapter 5 [link: ] and are not elaborated here.
5.5.2
Special Students
Special Students are persons other than registered OIST PhD students, who are
undertaking educational activity in the Graduate School. There are several
categories of Special Student:
Category

PRP

Eligibility

Period

ch05_graduate-school-handbook_en_20180127_cl

Students receiving research
Special Research
Student <Tokubetsu-

guidance or co-supervision
5.5.2.1.

Kenkyu-Gakusei>

toward a degree. (A written 6 months and longer
agreement with the partner
institution is required.)
Students obtaining research
experience under the

Research Intern

5.5.2.2.

direction of an OIST

Up to 6 months

professor.

Students participating in a
research project as part of a
Visiting Research
Student

recognized collaboration, or
5.5.2.3.

some other defined research Up to 364 days
project under the
supervision of an OIST
professor.

Visiting Students
<Kamoku-Tou-

Students taking courses at
5.5.2.4.

Risyuusei>
Course Auditors
<Choukousei>
Junior Research
Fellows

OIST for credit at another

Academic term

university
5.5.2.5.
5.5.2.6.

Academic term
Students whose thesis

Up to 6 months

supervisor acknowledges
that they need to conclude
their research project after
the degree conferral at
OIST.

These categories are separately considered in the following sections.

ch05_graduate-school-handbook_en_20180127_cl

5.5.2.1
Special Research Students <Tokubetsu-Kenkyu-Gakusei>
Students of other universities (referred to as the “partner institution”)
who are permitted by the partner institution to receive research guidance
at the OIST Graduate University under the terms of an agreement with
the partner institution, may apply to become Special Research Students
at OIST. Special Research Students are not OIST PhD degree candidates
and there is no mechanism to change the status of a Special Research
Student to become an OIST PhD student except by application to the
OIST graduate program in the usual way.
Candidates for Special Research Student status must obtain approval
from the Dean of the OIST Graduate School and Dean of Research of the
OIST Graduate University. The Dean of the Graduate School will make a
recommendation to the Dean of Research after consultation with the
OIST research supervisor and partner institution. In general, such
applications will be approved provided this poses no obstacles to the
education and research activity of the Graduate School.
Faculty members of the OIST Graduate School can provide supervision
to Special Research Students of the partner institution under the terms
of an agreement with the partner institution. The period for which a
student can receive research guidance as a Special Research Student
must be stipulated in the agreement. This term is normally for one year,
subject to renewal as needed. Upon the completion of the period of
supervision at OIST, or annually, the OIST supervisor is required to
submit a written report on the student to the Dean of the OIST Graduate
School.
Special Research Students can take OIST courses as Course Auditors (see
5.5.2.5.) or receive credits at their home University for completion of
courses at OIST as Visiting Students (see 5.5.2.4.).
Special Research Students must observe OIST Graduate University rules
as defined in the Graduate School Handbook and the OIST Graduate
University PRP. Rules concerning Intellectual Property are separately
stipulated in Chapter 14[link: ]. Special Research Students who violate
the rules of the OIST Graduate University may be disqualified and have
their research guidance terminated.
Special Research Students enjoy many of the same privileges of students
for full-time study in the doctoral program in the University, with the
exception of Financial Support, which is handled differently.
5.5.2.1.1.
Students of newly-hired faculty
Students of newly hired faculty who relocate to OIST before
completion of their PhD degree may need special arrangements
ch05_graduate-school-handbook_en_20180127_cl

to facilitate the successful completion of their PhD. If the student
is able to complete their research at OIST while continuing to be
enrolled at their original home institution, they can be received
as Special Research Students receiving research guidance from
the relocating faculty member. Such students would graduate
with a degree from the home institution.
Students who desire to transfer their degree studies to the OIST
Graduate University and graduate with the OIST degree must
apply for admission as full-time graduate students. These
candidates follow standard OIST admission procedures and
selection is on a competitive basis with other applicants. Selected
candidates are admitted to the OIST program and follow the OIST
curriculum, according to the program outlined in Chapter 5.
5.5.2.1.2.
Procedures for Special Research Students
Special Research Students must be formally accepted and
registered as Special Students at the OIST Graduate University in
accordance with Article 43 of the University Rules [link: ]. The
Graduate School must be notified of the intention to host the
student by the Professor of the Research Unit in a timely manner
(at least 6months prior to the expected start date). The
procedure for acceptance and registration requires the student to
submit the documents listed below:
i)
ii)
iii)
iv)
v)
vi)

Application for admission as a Special Research
Student (using the appropriate Form)
Recommendation letter from thesis supervisor in the
partner institution
Brief outline of arrangements and plan of research at
OIST from the OIST supervisor
Copy of transcript of the current degree at the home
institution
Brief Curriculum Vitae of the applicant
Digital image of student’s photograph (on a white
background) and a scan of the information page of the
passport if a visa is required

In general, a written agreement with the partner institution is
required to confirm the understanding of the arrangements and
agreement of the partner institution. It is important that the
degree requirements of the partner institution can be met at
OIST. The Graduate School will complete such an agreement
with the partner institution. Such an agreement may allow for
mutual waiver of tuition fees. Where such an agreement does not
exist, tuition fees may be charged to the student.
ch05_graduate-school-handbook_en_20180127_cl

After acceptance of the student, the Graduate School will make a
recommendation to the Research Unit concerning the conditions
of financial support for the Special Research Student. The
student must declare any external financial support from the
partner institution or external funding agency and this will be
taken into account in determining the recommended level of
financial support and benefits at OIST.
If a Special Research Students is elected by OIST as a Graduate
Student Research Assistant, the level of financial support and
conditions of appointment are stipulated in the SRS Research
Assistantship Agreement prepared by the Student Support
Section. If the Special Research Student is not receiving this
financial support, the conditions of appointment will be
stipulated in an offer letter that will constitute the agreement
between OIST and the Special Research Student after it is signed
by both parties.
The host Research Unit is responsible for making travel and
housing arrangements for the Special Research Student. As
necessary, the Student Support Section will assist with visa
processing requirements. Housing is available to Special
Research Students at student rates (see above, section
5.5.2.1.3.6.).

5.5.2.1.3. Financial Support for Special Research Students
No financial support is available from the Graduate School or
other central fund at OIST. In some circumstances, financial
support for Special Research Students may be available from the
host research unit, in which case financial support for Special
Research Students, including salary SRS Research Assistantship
and other benefits, should be included in the budget of the host
research unit. Students seeking such support must organize this
with the Professor of the host research unit in advance.
The following benefits may be available to Special Research
Students on the advice of the Graduate School with approval of
the Dean of Research and agreement of the Professor of the host
Research Unit.
5.5.2.1.3.1. SRS Research Assistantship
A SRS Research Assistantship is an appointment provided to
a Special Research Student in good standing who performs

ch05_graduate-school-handbook_en_20180127_cl

research or who assists others performing research and
educational activities.
Tenure of a SRS Research Assistantship is for one year, or
until he thesis is submitted (whichever period is the shorter).
Continued financial support depends on maintained
performance in study and research with an official request
from the host research Unit. SRS Research Assistantships
will be discontinued in the event of unexcused absence,
failure to maintain adequate academic performance,
unethical behavior, or other reasons determined by the
academic oversight process to be incompatible with good
standing.
5.5.2.1.3.2. Business travel
Approved business travel for work may be undertaken in
accordance with OIST PRP Chapter 29. For the purpose of
business travel, Special Research Students are considered as
Category Group 5 employees. Support for such travel must
come from the Research Unit, not the Graduate School.
5.5.2.1. 3.3. Relocation
5.5.2.1.3.3.1. Transfer Allowance Transfer Allowance can
be provided stipulated in the table below:
Domestic
International

36,600 yen
62,800 yen

Family relocation allowance:
Spouse & Child 12 years of age or older = 2/3
Child under 12 years of age = 1/3
5.5.2.1.3.3.2. Relocation Expenses
Special Research Students normally receive support for
round trip travel (or two one-way tickets) and no relocation
expenses. However, a Special Research Student may
alternatively choose to receive a one-way ticket and
relocation expenses at the following rate.
Domestic
International

Maximum
level
household
250,000 yen*
500,000 yen

per

*350,000 yen if transferring a car from mainland Japan
Reimbursement of relocation expenses can only be provided
once.

ch05_graduate-school-handbook_en_20180127_cl

If a Special Research Student voluntarily terminates the
agreement within the first three months, OIST S.C. may
request return of the total amount provided. If the
termination is due to unavoidable circumstances (including
family health reasons), OIST S.C. may waive the claim
regarding return of the above amount.
5.5.2.1.3.4. Commuting
A commuting allowance may be paid to students who live
outside of campus but cannot use the OIST shuttle bus for
reasons deemed valid by the Dean of the Graduate School.
Details on the allowance are stipulated separately by “Rules
Pertaining to a Commuting Allowance for Students”.
5.5.2.1.3.5. Insurance
All Special Research Students must join the National Health
Insurance scheme. They are covered by Accident Insurance
for Students Pursuing Education and Research (PAS), and
Liability Insurance coupled with PAS (Gakkensai and
Gakkenbai) provided by Graduate School.
5.5.2.1.3.6. Accommodation
Subsidized accommodation is provided for Special Research
Students living in the Campus Housing. If a Special Research
Student is required to live
off-campus due to unavoidable circumstances, such as
shortage of housing in the Campus Housing, the University
may lease off-campus housing for residence of the student.
(Please refer Student Rental Housing Rules.)
5.5.2.1.3.6.1. On-Campus Housing
Special Research Students have access to the Campus
Housing at student rates.
Apartment
type
1-BR
2- B R
2- B R
2- B R

Use
S in gl e
S in gl e
2 Share*
Family

Floor
Are a
45 m 2
70m 2
70m2
70m2

Net R en t
(Fu rn is h ed )
21 ,6 00 y en /m th
8 0, 00 0 ye n/ mt h
18 ,0 00 y en / mth *
41 , 00 0 ye n/ mt h

Net R en t
(U nfu rn is h ed )
13, 60 0 ye n/ mt h
65 ,0 00 y en/ mt h
10, 50 0 ye n/ mt h *
21 ,0 00 y en /m th

*This applies only when both parties are registered OIST
graduate students.
Minor change in rates on the order of 10% is possible.

ch05_graduate-school-handbook_en_20180127_cl

5.5.2.1.3.6.2. Off-Campus Housing
If a Special Research Student is required to live off-campus
due to unavoidable circumstances, such as shortage of
housing in the Campus Housing, the University may lease
off-campus housing for residence of the student.
(Please refer Student Rental Housing Rules.)
5.5.2.1.3.6.3. Payment
Rent, Utilities (if applicable) and other necessary costs will
be deducted from the emolument of the SRS Research
Assistantship. Those who do not have SRS Research
Assistantship will be billed.

5.5.2.2.
Research Interns
Previously registered, current, or intending students of another
university who wish to undertake educational activity at OIST may do so
as Research Interns. Research Intern placements give talented students
experience working in a research setting under the direction of a
Professor at OIST.
The Graduate School administers a limited number of Research Intern
positions as part of its student recruitment and outreach program.
Research Interns may also be supported by Research Units with
approval of the Dean of the Graduate School, provided this poses no
obstacles to the education and research activities of the Graduate
School. Places for Research Interns are awarded four times a year on a
competitive basis, with application typically six months in advance.

5.5.2.2.1.
Eligibility
Students enrolled at undergraduate programs in universities,
colleges, junior colleges, and vocational schools in Japan or
overseas, or graduates of such institutions who intend to
undertake further study are eligible to apply.
Applications from students who are already in PhD programs at
other universities will also be considered, but undergraduate
students will receive preference for funding from the Graduate
School.
The applications of high ranking applicants who are already in
PhD programs will be forwarded to the Faculty for consideration
of placement in research units, supported by research unit funds.

ch05_graduate-school-handbook_en_20180127_cl

Applications from currently enrolled students must be supported
by a recommendation letter from the Dean, Head of Department,
or supervising professor of the program they are enrolled in.
5.5.2.2.2.
Application
Places for Research Interns are awarded four times a year on a
competitive basis. Application must be made using the online
application form in accordance with the procedures and
deadlines that are posted on the OIST website [link]. Sufficient
time must be allowed for the issue of a visa and other necessary
Japanese government documentation.
Selection is competitive, and depends on suitability of the
intended research, a student's academic background, and
available funding and space. Professors accepting students
under these programs will review the student’s qualifications,
research capabilities, and academic training in a comprehensive
manner.
5.5.2.2.3
Duration
The tenure of Research Intern placement is normally less than 6
months. Under no circumstances may tenure be extended more
than 1 year. Under some circumstances with approval of the Dean
of the Graduate School, students may stay longer than 1 year as
Special Research Students provided application to change status
is made at least 6 months before starting to allow time for the
necessary institutional agreement.

5.5.2.2.4.
Working Days and Hours
The working days are from Monday to Friday, excluding
University Holidays [link]. The working hours are from 9:00am
to 5:30pm.
5.5.2.2.5
Financial Support
OIST expects that such Research Interns are independently
funded but provides a small internship allowance, commuting
support (where necessary), and accommodation either on
campus or nearby. Successful applicants will receive a taxable
Internship Allowance of ￥2,400 per work day, while at
OIST. No internship allowance will be paid for University
Holidays [link], or for working days on which Research Interns
work less than four hours. In addition, where necessary, OIST
will also provide up to a maximum of ￥45,000 per month as a
Commuting Allowance and up to a maximum of ￥3,500 per day

ch05_graduate-school-handbook_en_20180127_cl

as Overnight Accommodation Costs (instead of provision of
accommodation costs, accommodation is normally provided at
no cost to the student). The Internship Allowance will be adjusted
if the Research Intern has another source of financial support.
There is an obligation on the Research Intern to report other
sources of financial support to the Student Support Section
before their arrival. The amount of other support will be taken
into account in determining the level of the financial support
provided by OIST.
5.5.2.2.6
Leave
Research Interns may take unpaid leave during the internship
provided: the total leave days number less than 10% of the total
duration of the work days of the internship; the leave is approved
by their supervisor; the Student Support Section is informed by
submitting a leave request through the website [link]; there is no
hindrance to their research activities.
5.5.2.2.7
Travel
OIST will pay for one direct round-trip travel for Research
Interns between the home university or institution and the
Research Unit or other facility where the internship will take
place (usually Okinawa). The travel dates must be as close as
possible to the term of the placement. On departure from OIST,
overseas students may additionally stop over for up to 5 days
(excluding weekends and Japanese holidays) as they transit
through an international hub airport in Japan, at the rate of one
day per week of tenure at OIST, provided that this poses no
additional cost in terms of flights, and that they do so entirely at
their own expense.
5.5.2.2.8 Other Support
The Student Support Section of the Graduate School will provide
support for Research Interns at OIST with matters such as
housing, visa acquisition, insurance during their research
activities, and local registration. OIST regrets that support for
dependents, family members, and persons other than the student
is not available. Confirmation of sufficient and appropriate
insurance coverage for travel and activities is necessary.
5.5.2.3. Visiting Research Students
Visiting Research Students are registered students of another institution
who wish to undertake a period of research at OIST under the
supervision of an OIST faculty member as part of a recognized
collaborative research project or some other defined research project.

ch05_graduate-school-handbook_en_20180127_cl

5.5.2.3.1. Eligibility
This category provides for students enrolled for higher degrees at
other institutions and engaged in research activity who wish to
come to OIST to engage in a recognized collaborative research
project, or some other defined research project.
This research project must be covered by a Visiting Research
Student Agreement, completed before the start of the research
period. Applications to host a Visiting Research Student are
approved by the Dean of the Graduate School, provided this poses
no obstacles to the education and research activities of the
Graduate School.
5.5.2.3.2. Procedure for Visiting Research Students
Visiting Research Students must be formally accepted and
registered as Special Students at the OIST Graduate University in
accordance with the University Rules. The Graduate School must
be notified of the intention to host the student by the Professor of
the Research Unit in a timely manner. The procedure for
acceptance and registration requires the student to submit the
documents listed below:
i)
ii)
iii)

iv)
v)
vi)

Application for admission as a Visiting Research Student
(using the appropriate Form)
Visiting Research Student Agreement
Brief outline of arrangements and plan of research at OIST
from the OIST supervisor (attachment 1 for Visiting
Research Student Agreement)
Brief Curriculum Vitae of the applicant
Digital Image of student’s photograph
Copy of Student ID Card at home institution

5.5.2.3.3
Duration
The maximum tenure of a Visiting Research Student is 364 days.
5.5.2.3.4
Financial Support
Visiting Research students who are part of a collaborative
research project in general bring their own funding. If necessary,
the host Unit may support the visiting research student with
travel, accommodation and a daily allowance, in accordance with
OIST PRP Chapter 29.
5.5.2.4 Visiting Students <Kamoku-Tou-Risyuusei>
Visiting Students are registered students of another university who wish
to take one or more courses offered by the OIST Graduate School for
credit at their home university. With the prior permission of the Dean,
ch05_graduate-school-handbook_en_20180127_cl

who will take into account such factors as class size, such a student may
enroll as a Visiting Student. Applications for admission as a Visiting
Student must be received one month before the start of the course,
using the appropriate form (see Forms). Credit cannot be awarded to
course auditors who are not formally enrolled as Visiting Students.
Registered graduate or undergraduate students of another university
who seek credit for attending OIST International Workshops and
Courses may enroll in approved courses as Visiting Students. Admission
of Visiting Students to OIST International Workshops and Courses is
decided by the course organizers. The process for approval of
International Workshops and Courses for course credits is stipulated in
Section 5.3. [link: 5.3.].
Research Interns who intend to apply for admission to the OIST
graduate program, or who have been admitted but wish to start early,
may enroll for courses and receive credit at the OIST graduate
university as Visiting Students. The Graduate School will provide, on
request, an individual student transcript of courses completed.

5.5.2.5 Course Auditors <Choukousei>
Members of the OIST community (including faculty, researchers, OIST
students and special research students, research interns, administrative
staff, and family members) may apply to become Course Auditors of
specific courses. A formal request must be made to the Graduate
School for permission to attend classes (see Forms). Where the presence
of Course Auditors or their different level of background
knowledge would impact on the quality of teaching of regular students,
we reserve the right to decline such requests. The Professor in charge of
a course has the final word on accepting Course Auditors and the
behavior expected of them. An Auditing Student may attend and
participate as a normal student. The Graduate School does not award
credit or recognition for courses attended. Course Auditors are
required to attend regularly so as not to disturb class numbers. At the
discretion of the Professor in charge of a course, they may submit work
for grading along with regular students. Information concerning current
classes, times, and locations is available on the Graduate School website
[link: ].
5.5.2.6. Junior Research Fellows
Junior Research Fellows are the students whose thesis supervisor
requests a continuation of their research project after the degree
conferral at OIST.
Students in this category are registered as Special Students. The
ch05_graduate-school-handbook_en_20180127_cl

duration is up to a maximum of 6 months. Under no conditions can this
be extended beyond 6 months. A concrete research plan approved by
their thesis supervisor and the Dean of the Graduate School is required.
Financial support for Junior Research Fellows may be available from
the host research unit. Financial support for Junior Research Fellows,
including fellowship and other benefits, should be included in the
budget of the host research unit. Students seeking such support must
organize this with their thesis supervisor in advance.
Junior Research Fellows enjoy many of the same privileges students for
full-time study in the doctoral program in the University, with the
exception of Financial Support, which is handled differently.
Appointment to a postdoctoral position at OIST is not permitted for
OIST PhD students within 2 years of the last day of their studentship at
OIST.
5.5.2.6.1. Procedures for Junior Research Fellows
Junior Research Fellows must be formally accepted and registered as
Special Student at the OIST Graduate University in accordance with
Article 43 of the University Rules. The Graduate School must be notified
of the intention to host the student by their thesis supervisor (preferably
3 months prior to the expected start date and at least 1 month prior to
the start date). The procedure for acceptance and registration requires
that the student submits the documents listed below:

i)

Application for admission as a Junior Research Fellow (using the
designated Form)

ii)
iii)

Recommendation letter from thesis supervisor

iv)

Clear plan for employment after termination.

Brief outline of arrangements and plan of research from thesis
supervisor

After acceptance of the student, the Graduate School will make a
recommendation to the thesis supervisor concerning the conditions of
financial support for the Junior Research Fellow. The student must
declare any external financial support from funding agency and this will
be taken into account in determining the recommended level of
financial support and benefits at OIST.
If a student is admitted by OIST as a Junior Research Fellow, the level
of financial support and conditions are stipulated in the Junior
Research Fellowship Agreement prepared by the Student Support
Section. If the Junior Research Fellow is not receiving this financial

ch05_graduate-school-handbook_en_20180127_cl

support, the conditions of appointment will be stipulated in an offer
letter that will constitute the agreement between OIST and the Junior
Research Fellows after it is signed by both parties.
5.5.2.6.2. Financial Support for Junior Research Fellows
A Junior Research Fellowship is an appointment provided to a Junior
Research Fellow whose thesis supervisor acknowledges the necessity to
continue their time for completion of matters required for conclusion of
the research project after the degree conferral for up to 6 months.
5.5.2.6.2.1. Junior Research Fellowship
A Junior Research Fellowship is an appointment provided to a Junior
Research Fellow whose thesis supervisor acknowledges the necessity to
continue their time for completion of matters required for conclusion of
the research project after the degree conferral for up to 6 months.
5.5.2.6.2.2. Business travel
Approved business travel for work may be undertaken in accordance
with OIST PRP Chapter 29. For the purpose of business travel, Junior
Research Fellows are considered as Category Group 5. Support for such
travel must come from the Research Unit.
5.5.2.6.2.3. Commuting Allowance
A commuting allowance may be paid to students who live outside of
campus but cannot use the OIST shuttle bus for reasons deemed valid
by the Dean of the Graduate School. Details on the allowance are
stipulated separately by “Rules Pertaining to a Commuting Allowance
for Students”
5.5.2.6.2.4. Insurance
All Junior Research Fellows must join the National Health Insurance
scheme. They are covered by Accident Insurance for Students Pursuing
Education and Research (PAS), and Liability Insurance coupled with
PAS (Gakkensai and Gakkenbai) provided by Graduate School.
5.5.2.6.2.5. Accommodation
The Graduate School continues to provide the current subsidized
apartment at student rates to Junior Research Fellows until the end of
their Junior Research Fellow status. Rent, Utilities (if applicable) and
other necessary costs will be deducted from the emolument of the
Junior Research Fellowship. Those who do not have Junior Research
Fellowship will be billed.
5.6.

Improvement of education

ch05_graduate-school-handbook_en_20180127_cl

5.6.1.
Basic Policy of Faculty Development
The Graduate University must maintain and improve the quality of its Faculty in
order to provide an outstanding education at OIST and to meet the different
educational needs of each student. The Graduate School will play an active role in
the development of faculty members by implementing programs for faculty
development in teaching and supervision of graduate students.
5.6.2. Methods
Specifically, the Graduate University will conduct the following:
5.6.2.1.
Teaching Guidelines
The Faculty Development section of the Office of the Dean of the
Graduate School will create, maintain and distribute guidelines for
quality teaching to ensure uniform best-practice teaching standards are
observed at OIST.
5.6.2.2.
Student Teaching Evaluations
Students will evaluate each course at the end of the course. The results of
such evaluations will be distributed to the teacher, and will also be
available to students. The student responses to a standard subset of
questions will be reported to the Office of the Dean of the Graduate
School. The Faculty Development section of the Office of the Dean of the
Graduate School will assist the teacher to respond appropriately to this
feedback.
5.6.2.3.
Peer Review of Teaching
Faculty members will support the development of their colleagues by
participating from time to time as classroom observers, with the
agreement of the teacher. The date of such observation will be reported
to the Office of the Dean of the Graduate School, and the observer will
discuss their observations with the teacher in a collegial and supportive
manner.
5.6.2.4.
Teacher Training
The Faculty Development section will arrange training sessions, and
workshops for faculty development from suitably qualified facilitators, in
order to enhance the teaching ability of OIST Faculty members.
5.6.2.5.
Mentoring
A mentoring system will be established so that faculty with less
experience in teaching and thesis supervision can meet with more
experienced faculty to receive advice and support. As a part of this system
the Thesis Committee supervising each student will include junior and
senior Faculty members to facilitate the transfer of skills relating to
supervision of research.

ch05_graduate-school-handbook_en_20180127_cl

The Faculty Development section will implement these methods to
ensure the improvement of the education and research of the Graduate
University.
5.7. Library
Reference to the chapter 6 University Library [link: 6]
5.8. Computers
OIST PhD Students will be provided with a standard laptop computer adequate for their basic
needs for communication, coursework and thesis writing during their time at OIST. Research
units are to provide for any additional computer needs as required for the students’ research
during lab rotations and/or their thesis research if students’ supervisors deem it necessary.
Use of the Graduate School issued computers must conform with the chapter 17 Information
Technology and Security [link: 6].
5.9.

Administrative rules
5.9.1.

Academic progression requirements

The OIST Graduate University is committed to early identification and support of
students who are not meeting academic progression requirements, and to
maintaining academic standards of students in the PhD program.
5.9.1.1 Identification of unsatisfactory academic progress
The Curriculum and Examination Committee annually reviews the
academic records of all students. Students who show signs of not meeting
academic progression requirements are identified by review of course and
rotation evaluations, conducted by the Dean of the Graduate School at the
end of each term, or by the PhD Thesis Committees on the basis of annual
progress reports. The Dean of the Graduate School notifies the Committee
of any students who are failing to meet academic progression
requirements. Students who are not meeting progression requirements
are alerted by the Dean of the Graduate School and provided assistance
to address issues affecting progress.
Satisfactory academic progression requires:
1. A level of performance in courses and rotations meeting all of the
following criteria:

ch05_graduate-school-handbook_en_20180127_cl

i.

Completing an approved program of elective coursework with
at least a “Pass” evaluation in all courses, at a rate sufficient
to meet the cumulative credit requirements for progression
to thesis research and graduation;

ii.

Completing all compulsory coursework with at least a “Pass”
evaluation;

iii.

Completing all required rotations with at least a “Pass”
evaluation;

iv.

Achieving overall satisfactory progress as determined in
annual evaluation by the Curriculum and Examinations
Committee. The Curriculum and Examinations Committee
may require a minimal evaluation higher than a “Pass” in the
overall academic performance of the student.

2. Satisfactory progress in research defined by the following criteria:
i.

Timely development by the student of research goals that can
be realized at the OIST Graduate University.

ii.

Submission of a Thesis Proposal within nine months of
commencing Preliminary Thesis Research.

iii.

Passing the qualifying examination for advancement to
candidacy within twelve months of commencing Preliminary
Thesis Research.

iv.
v.

Satisfactory Annual Progress Reports
Completion of the PhD thesis within five years of commencing
the program

Unsatisfactory academic progress is defined as failure to meet any of the
criteria listed above, as determined by the Curriculum and Examinations
Committee.
In the case of established unsatisfactory academic progress the
Committee may recommend probation or termination of candidacy.

ch05_graduate-school-handbook_en_20180127_cl

Probation is an option if satisfactory progress can be achieved by (a)
repeating and passing a failed unit (course or rotation); or, (b)
substituting and passing an approved alternative unit. If the Committee
recommends probation the Dean of the Graduate School alerts the
student and explains the conditions the student must meet for
satisfactory academic progress.
Discontinuation is applied if a student fails a repeated or substituted
course or rotation, or fails to make satisfactory progress in research.
5.9.2.

Discontinuation of studies
Discontinuation for unsatisfactory academic progress
Students in the PhD program may be discontinued for unsatisfactory
academic progress. In such cases the Dean of the Graduate School may
order the discontinuation of that student upon obtaining permission
from the President, and with endorsement of the decision by the
Curriculum and Examinations Committee.

5.10. Committees of the Graduate School
5.10.1. Admissions Committee
The Admissions Committee is a standing committee of the University with delegated
authority from the Faculty Assembly to select students for admission to the PhD
program, and is advisory to the Dean of the Graduate School. The main purpose of
the Admissions Committee is to deliberate and advise on matters related to graduate
student recruitment and admissions, to ensure the recruitment and selection of
excellent students. It has a particular role in the selection of individual candidates
for admission to the graduate program. The Admissions Committee reports to the
Assembly through the Dean of the Graduate School.
5.10.1.1.
Membership of the Committee
The Committee includes faculty members representing the major fields
of research and education at OIST who are charged with providing advice
on matters requiring academic input. The Dean of the Graduate School
appoints Committee members. The Dean of Research, Manager,
Academic Services Section, and Manager, Student Support Section are
ex-officio members of the Committee. The Academic Services section
provides administrative support for the Committee.

ch05_graduate-school-handbook_en_20180127_cl

5.10.1.2.
Chairperson of the Committee
The Dean of the Graduate School shall preside at meetings of the
Committee.
5.10.1.3.
Frequency of convocation
The Chairperson will call meetings of the Committee at least two times
per year.
5.10.1.4.
Items to be discussed at meetings of the Committee
The Committee may consider specific matters as follows:
i Graduate student admissions
ii Graduate student recruiting
iii
Other matters
The Committee may also deliberate on policy matters in relation to
admissions.
5.10.1.5.
Meetings of the Committee
i
If there is not a majority of the members with voting rights in
attendance, the Committee shall not transact its business.
ii
Resolutions of the Committee shall be passed by a majority. The
Chairperson shall make a decision in case of tie in votes
iii
As deemed necessary by the Chairperson members may
participate in the Committee meeting by teleconference and
exercise voting rights. Absent
members may not exercise
voting rights.
iv
As deemed necessary by the Chairperson faculty members other
than members of the Committee may be invited to attend the
meeting and participate in proceedings or serve as advisors on
panels. This may occur, for example, to ensure that certain fields
of expertise are represented, or to achieve diversity.
v
The agenda and decisions of the Committee shall be made
available to all Faculty Assembly members.
vi
The Committee shall include a member who is charged with
ensuring that issues of diversity and equal opportunity are
properly addressed. This shall be a trained member of staff from
the diversity office or a member of the committee who has
received appropriate training.
vii
Members of the committee or panels must declare conflicts of
interest or the appearance of a conflict when these exist. Conflicts
of interest occur when a candidate has any of the following
relationships to the Committee member or advisor:
(a)
(b)
(c)

Former or present student;
Student for whom the member has written a
supporting letter;
Former or current business partner or employer;
ch05_graduate-school-handbook_en_20180127_cl

(d)
(e)

Close friend or partner;
Family member (spouse, child, sibling, sibling of
spouse or child of sibling).

The existence of a conflict of interest is not a barrier to the
selection of a candidate. However, special procedures must be
followed to ensure the integrity of the process and the fair
treatment of the candidate.
5.10.1.6.
Procedures for dealing with a conflict of interest
Prior to a committee meeting in which a member of the Committee or
advisor has a conflict of interest, the committee member having a conflict
of interest shall disclose all facts that are relevant to the conflict of
interest. Such disclosure shall be reflected in the minutes of the meeting.
If a committee member is aware that members or advisors have a conflict
of interest, they shall disclose the relevant facts. If an undeclared conflict
of interest is discovered and the procedures have not been followed the
matter shall be referred to the President, who will determine the course
of action to be taken in response.
Conflict of Interest in Relation to Applicants Who Are Family Members
There is no barrier to the candidacy or selection of a candidate who is a
family member provided that proper procedures are followed. In the case
of a family member, the conflict of interest shall be declared in writing to
the Chairperson of the Admissions Committee. The committee member
or advisor concerned shall thereafter take no part in the evaluations of
any candidates or the decisions of the committee, and shall not have
access to the proceedings and records of the committee, with respect to
any other candidate, until a decision about the candidate who is a family
member has been made.
The written declaration shall include the date of the declaration, the
name of the committee member, the name of the candidate, and the
nature of the relationship of the committee member to the candidate. The
declaration shall include the following statement:
“I hereby recuse myself from any evaluation or decisions
concerning the above candidate, and any other candidate in the
same round of applications, immediately and until a decision
about the above candidate has been made.”
Other Conflicts of Interest
In the case of other conflicts of interest, the conflict shall be declared to
the Chairperson, who shall ensure that the committee member concerned
takes no part in the decision of the committee with respect to the
candidate, by requiring the member to leave the room when the
ch05_graduate-school-handbook_en_20180127_cl

candidate is discussed, or stronger measures as considered necessary by
the Chairperson.

5.10.2. Curriculum and Examinations Committee
The Curriculum and Examinations Committee is a standing committee of the
University with delegated authority from the Faculty Assembly to deal with matters
related to the curriculum and individual student progress in the PhD program, and
is advisory to the Dean of the Graduate School. The Curriculum and Examinations
Committee reports to the Assembly through the Dean of the Graduate School.
5.10.2.1.

Membership of the Committee

The Committee includes faculty members representing the major fields
of research and education at OIST who are charged with providing advice
on matters requiring academic input. The Dean of the Graduate School
appoints Committee members. The Dean of Research, Manager,
Academic Services Section, and Manager, Student Support Section are
ex-officio members of the Committee. The Academic Services section
provides administrative support for the Committee.
5.10.2.2.
Chairperson of the Committee
The Dean of the Graduate School shall preside at meetings of the
Committee.
5.10.2.3.
Frequency of convocation
The Chairperson will call meetings of the Committee on the First Monday
of every second month.
5.10.2.4.
Attendance at meetings
Since a majority of the members with voting rights is required for a
quorum, voting members of the committee who miss three successive
regularly scheduled meetings, or who miss five or more of the regularly
scheduled meetings in a calendar year, will automatically be discharged
from the committee, with the following exceptions: members who attend
electronically, members who submit written comments on agenda items,
members who are scheduled to teach at the time of the meeting.
5.10.2.5.
Items to be discussed at meetings of the Committee
The Committee deliberates on matters related to the curriculum and
individual student progress in the PhD program.
The committee deals with:
•Individual student program (by review of program proposals)
•Individual student progress (by review of annual progress reports)

ch05_graduate-school-handbook_en_20180127_cl

•Approval of thesis proposals and progression to thesis research
•Appointment of thesis supervisor and thesis committee
•Appointment of examiners
•Award of degrees
•Changes to the curriculum (by review of course proposals)
•Other matters related to curriculum and student progress
5.10.2.6.
Meetings of the Committee
i.
If there is not a majority of the members with voting rights in
attendance, the Committee shall not transact its business.
ii.
Resolutions of the Committee shall be passed by a majority. The
Chairperson shall make a decision in case of tie in votes
iii. As deemed necessary by the Chairperson members may participate
in the Committee meeting by teleconference and exercise voting rights.
Absent members may not exercise voting rights.
iv. As deemed necessary by the Chairperson faculty members other
than members of the Committee may be invited to attend the meeting
and participate in proceedings or serve as advisors on panels. This may
occur, for example, to ensure that certain fields of expertise are
represented, or to achieve diversity.
v.
The agenda and decisions of the Committee shall be made available
to the Faculty Assembly.
vi. Members of the committee or panels must declare conflicts of
interest or the appearance of a conflict when these exist.
5.10.2.7.
Procedures for dealing with a conflict of interest
In the case of conflicts of interest, the conflict shall be declared to the
Chairperson, who shall ensure that the committee member concerned
takes no part in the decision of the committee with respect to the matter,
by requiring the member to leave the room when the matter is discussed,
or stronger measures as considered necessary by the Chairperson.
5.11. Teaching Spaces and Resources Management
Graduate School spaces and resources will be made available for use by the OIST Community
for the purpose of teaching and learning in line with the OIST Teaching Labs Facility &
Resource Use Policy. [link to full policy
“https://groups.oist.jp/sites/default/files/imce/u137/Forms/OIST%20Teaching%20Labs%2
0Facility%20Use%20Policy%20%282%29.docx”]
Graduate School teaching spaces are intended to support teaching and learning at OIST.
Priority is given to use in official Graduate School courses and other Graduate School
sponsored trainings and events. When a space is not in use, it may be booked and used with
prior approval of the Graduate School.

ch05_graduate-school-handbook_en_20180127_cl

OIST Graduate University
Policies, Rules, & Procedures
Authority: Approved by the Dean of the Faculty Affairs

Chapter 6. University Library
6.1

Policy Statement

Okinawa Institute of Science and Technology Graduate University Library (“the
Library”) is a key part of the University infrastructure, critical to the education
and research activities of the University. The Library provides both a central
library facility and an online environment for University-affiliated users to have
access to a diverse range of literature, reference materials and databases. By
providing access to electronic form of research, scholarship, and creative works
of the University (hereafter collectively referred to as “the Works”), the Library
contributes to development of education and research activities as well as
promoting information disclosure and establishing accountability to the society.
6.2

General Considerations
6.2.1 The Library Collection
The Library holds a collection of electronic and printed materials (the
Collection) to support the teaching and research activities of the
University. The Collection includes sufficient printed materials to
support teaching and general reference needs on campus, and also
contains a large amount of electronic material to allow users to access a
wide range of sources that cannot be provided as printed material
because of cost and limitations on space. In addition, the electronic
material is accessible to users remotely both on and off campus.
6.2.1.1 Books
A limited collection of printed books is maintained in the library on
campus. This includes textbooks used in courses taught at the
University, important research reference books, and selected books
of general interest. The main focus is on science and technology,
but the Library also holds material to assist in the daily life of the
University staff and students. The Library maintains a catalog and
book ID system that tracks each book owned by the Library. This
reduces duplication and enhances the range of books available to all
users.
6.2.1.2 Journals
The Library strives to allow reasonable access to the widest available
range of journals to support the academic activity at the University.
When new areas of interest arise, effort is made to subscribe to
additional relevant journals. The Library will review annually the list
of journals under subscription and make additions and deletions,
taking into account the changing needs of the University community
and the available budget. Print copies of the most high-demand
journals are also kept on display, for up to 6 months or until space is
1
Ch06_UniversityLlibrary_20170816_en_cl

no longer available. Older copies of these print journals are kept in
storage until disposed of.
6.2.1.3 eBooks
Books with a limited lifespan that are rapidly updated, are better
provided as electronic books rather than printed books. These
include intrinsically transient publications like manuals for specific
software and programming handbooks, methods manuals, and
technical guides. In addition, electronic versions of books are
provided when use is infrequent where they are only available
electronically. eBooks and print books are treated alike by the
catalog and can be accessed from inside the University network.
6.2.1.4 Databases
The Library provides access to a range of databases to support the
research and educational activities of the University and the
Graduate School. The Library provides training in searching and
using these databases.
6.2.1.5 Reserve Collection
Courses or other University activities may ask that some books,
journal articles, or other materials temporarily be set aside for
restricted use in a reserve collection. (ex: Course Reserve Books [link:
6.3.2.1.3]）
6.2.1.6 Closed Reserve Collection
In special cases of rare or valuable references or materials, the
Library may establish closed reserve collections that require special
approval from the Librarian for access.
6.2.2 The Okinawa Institute of Science and Technology
Graduate University Institutional Repository
The Library provides open access to the Works of the University
personnel and/or students through the Okinawa Institute of Science and
Technology Graduate University Institutional Repository (hereinafter
referred to as “OISTIR”). The details of OISTIR is defined in “Okinawa
Institute of Science and Technology Graduate University Institutional
Repository Operational Guidelines”.
6.2.3 Layout of the Library
The Library provides a range of areas and rooms for different uses. This
includes desks for studying, computers to access the library catalog and
electronic collection, comfortable chairs for reading, copying, and
facilities for user-operated check-out of books.
6.2.4 Interlibrary Collaboration and Cooperation
The Library maintains membership in associations and consortia of
university, research, and public libraries across Japan to support the
activities of the Library. These agreements allow University faculty, staff
and students access to a wider range of material than can be held within
the University Collection. As a corollary, the University then allows other
universities and consortia members access to the holdings of the
University, as long as these are in agreement with the conditions imposed
2
Ch06_UniversityLlibrary_20170816_en_cl

by publishers and suppliers of those materials to the University.
6.2.5 Copyright Management
The Library manages the University’s obligations under the various
national copyright conventions, including the copying and storage of
journal articles, books, and database materials.
6.2.6 Access
The Library is a limited public access library and will provide storage for a
defined range of materials pertaining to the operation of the University
and for the University records of public interest, and will provide
reasonable access to those materials.
6.3

Rules
6.3.1 Library access
6.3.1.1 Hours of Operation
The Library offers 24 hour access to registered users. On-site
Library assistance will be provided from 9:00am to 5:30 pm from
Monday to Friday except holidays and new year holidays.
6.3.1.2 Registered Users of the Library
OIST students, faculty, researchers, administrative staff, , and
specially approved other staff including collaborators, interns, and
other guest researchers and faculty, are deemed “Registered Users of
the Library” and are given borrowing and online resources access
rights. OIST ID serves to identify our registered users for the
Library.
6.3.1.3 Unregistered Users of the Library
Unregistered users may use the University Library facilities while
library staff are in attendance. As Unregistered Users of the Library
［link: 6.8.2］, such visitors do not have the right to borrow books
or journals, and access e-resources, though they may read
books/journals while in the Library.
6.3.2 Rules for the Library
Consideration for the safety and security of the Library Collection,
the Library facilities, and other users are the guiding principles of
use. Library facilities and equipment must not be used for nonUniversity or commercial purposes (such as running a business or
buying and selling items on line). At no time may unlicensed
commercial video, film, recorded, or printed materials; other legally
restricted materials; or pornography or other inappropriate material
be viewed, downloaded, or distributed using Library facilities.
6.3.2.1 Rules for Borrowing
Registered users are allowed to borrow up to 15 items from the
library. Books can be borrowed for 30 days, and print journals and
3
Ch06_UniversityLlibrary_20170816_en_cl

electric media for 7 days. Course instructors can check out one copy
of textbooks for duration of the course.
6.3.2.1.1 Renewals
Registered users may request to renew borrowed library
materials by email or at a Counter if another user hasn’t
placed a request on their books. Paper Journal loan may not
be renewed.
6.3.2.1.2 Overdue
When a registered user has overdue books, the library will not
allow the user to check out other books until the user return
the overdue books to the library.
6.3.2.1.3 Course reserve books
Library should keep at least one copy of the course reserve
books per class in the current semester collection. When the
library holds more than one copy of course reserve books in
the current semester, any available copy in the library at that
point of time is designated as course reserve books. When
all available copies are checked out, a copy with the smallest
call number is recalled as a course reserve book regardless of
loan period. A user who is borrowing books which were
assigned the course reserved books, they have to return the
books upon the library’s request. The period of the course
reserve is from one week before a semester starts to the last
day of the semester. Upon course instructor’s requests, the
library may purchase up to 50 % of the number of students
registered in class.
6.3.2.2 Rules for use of Behavior in the Library
Appropriate behavior is expected of all users when in the Library.
Patrons whose behavior is inappropriate will be asked to desist or
will be required to leave the premises.
6.3.2.2.1 Drinking of non-alcoholic beverages is permitted,
but food is not allowed in the Library. Open drink
containers (cups, mugs) may not be placed on the same
surface as electronic equipment (computers, copiers, etc.),
or on bookshelves, at any time. Closed or spill-proof drink
containers are required
6.3.2.2.2 Those using the Library must not make noise
that disturbs others, whether by talking or from electronic or
other devices.
6.3.2.2.3 No animals or biological specimens are permitted
in the Library.
6.3.2.2.4 Laboratory coats or gloves may not be worn or
brought into the Library.
6.3.2.3 On-Campus Network Access to Library Facilities
6.3.2.3.1 All Registered Users may access Library facilities
from any on-campus computer with access to the University
network, using their University ID and password. These are
not to be shared with non-Registered Users.
4
Ch06_UniversityLlibrary_20170816_en_cl

6.3.2.3.2 Materials that are licensed only for use within
the University are not permitted to be removed from the
University environment.
6.3.2.3.3 Library facilities and equipment must not be
used for illegal purposes (such as file sharing or
downloading unauthorized content).
6.3.2.4 For use of library for Unregistered Users
Unregistered users must fill in the Library Unregistered Users Form
[link:6.6.3] at the library’s service counter and follow the
instructions from library staff on how to use the library. It is not
permitted to stay in the library for purposes other than using library
materials. Unregistered users may not bring their own personal
computers or use Library’s computers without library’s permission.
6.3.3 Use of Library Facilities from Outside Campus
Library facilities may be accessed by Registered Users from offcampus by VPN sign-in, or through alternative secure means that
may be arranged by OIST IT staff. Registered Users are not
permitted to share or distribute their passwords, ID and VPN access
codes with non-registered users or others.
6.3.4 Protection of Copyright
Only limited copying of copyright material is allowed in the Library.
Users may copy materials in the Library within the limits of the
Copyright Act (Act No. 48 of May 6, 1970).
6.3.5 Terms of Use for E-resources
The following actions are prohibited by the Copyright Act and
license agreements of providers.
6.3.5.1 Systematic downloading of multiple full-text files within a
short period of time manually or with auto-downloading software,
etc. (Downloading of multiple reference citations, e.g. into Endnote,
is acceptable.)
6.3.5.2 Reproductions or redistribution of full text data.
6.3.5.3 Using the full text data for purposes other than individual
use.
6.3.6 Rules on Managing Books in the Library Catalogues
6.3.6.1 Purpose
The purpose of these Rules is to stipulate standards and
requirements relating to the acquisition and management of the
materials in the Library Collection, and thereby ensure proper,
efficient and good management of materials. These Rules are based
on the Accounting Standard [link:], Article 42 of the University.
6.3.6.2 Definitions
6.3.6.2.1 “Acquisition” refers to the procedure for acquiring
materials for the library by selection, order, and acceptance
inspection and for receiving donations or other contributions.
5
Ch06_UniversityLlibrary_20170816_en_cl

6.3.6.2.2 “Management” refers to the registration, organization,
storage, inspection, and disposal of unnecessary materials.
6.3.6.3 Person Responsible for Collecting and Managing
Library Materials
The Person responsible for acquiring and managing Library
materials shall be the Library Director.
6.3.6.4 Scope of Materials
The “materials” referred to in these Rules are the books (fixed
assets), journals (non-assets), eBooks, databases, other software,
and related materials that the Library as an organization manages
and that are used for the purposes of research and education. In
these Rules, books include the following:
 Books that are used for the purposes of learning, education and
research.
 Books that are planned for use for one year or longer.
6.3.6.5 Acquisition
6.3.6.5.1 Selection of Materials
Materials shall be selected in accordance with the policy of the
Library Collection [link: 6.2.1]. Provided, however, that when
making a decision to purchase materials the budget, nature of the
materials, and necessary storage requirements are taken into
account
6.3.6.5.2 Ordering
Materials shall be ordered by the Library. At the time of
submitting a purchase request, a decision shall be made as to
whether or not to record the materials as assets.
6.3.6.5.3 Acceptance Inspections
Acceptance inspections of materials shall be carried out by the
Library staff.
6.3.6.5.4 Donations
Basically, the Library doesn’t accept donations of books or other
materials except for special cases. The Library Director may approve to
accept special donations of books or other materials that conform to the
Library’s Collection policy and that are considered to be suitable as
items for use with some kind of consideration.
6.3.6.6 Management
6.3.6.6.1 Registration
6.3.6.6.1.1 The necessary information on the acquired
materials shall be registered in the Library’s system.
6.3.6.6.1.2 Books that to be recorded as fixed assets for
accounting purposes must be stamped with the book stamp
“OIST Graduate University Library” and registered every year
in the fixed asset ledger
6.3.6.6.1.3 Books that are to be recorded as non-assets for
accounting purposes must be stamped with the book stamp
“OIST Graduate University Library” and registered every year
in the non-assets book ledger.
6
Ch06_UniversityLlibrary_20170816_en_cl

6.3.6.6.2 Organization
6.3.6.6.2.1 Materials registered in the manner specified in
the preceding article shall be organized according to the
Library system.
6.3.6.6.2.2 All other materials shall be organized
appropriately by the Library staff.
6.3.6.6.3 Storage
Once materials have been organized they shall be stored in their
specified place. Provided, however, that materials that are on loan
shall be stored at the responsibility of the user. If a user loses or
damages books that are on loan, he or she must report this to the
Library.
6.3.6.6.4 Inspection of Books
Stock collation shall be performed on books once a year.
6.3.6.6.5 Determination of Unnecessary Materials
Materials that fall under any of the following categories may be
determined as being unnecessary materials.
6.3.6.6.5.1 Materials that have become grossly soiled or
damaged due to frequent and long-term use, and that are
deemed to be irreparable, or whose repair cost is deemed to
exceed replacement cost.
6.3.6.6.5.2 Materials that are deemed to have lost their
usefulness due to successive revisions, the issuance of reeditions or the obsolescence of their content, and that are
deemed to not need to be stored.
6.3.6.6.5.3 Materials that were acquired with the intention of
short-term use, and that are deemed to have lost their value
due to the passage of time and that are deemed to not to need
to be stored.
6.3.6.6.5.4 Materials that had a retention period set and
such period has expired.
6.3.6.6.5.5 Materials for which a duplicate exists other than
the original document that is required to be stored.
6.3.6.6.5.6 Materials that can be judged as being appropriate
for utilization in other forms, e.g. books replaced with eBooks.
6.3.6.6.5.7 Materials that are lost for 2 or more years.
6.3.6.6.5.8 Any other materials identified as unnecessary by
the Librarian.
6.3.6.6.6 Disposal
Materials that are determined to be unnecessary as stipulated in
the preceding article shall, with the approval of the Library
Director, have their registration canceled and be sold, donated or
disposed of.
6.4 Responsibilities
6.4.1 Responsibilities of Users
Users of the Library must respect the physical and electronic online
environment of the Library and the rights of other users. Users are
responsible for ensuring that they correctly check borrowed material out,
and that they return such material at the appropriate time. Users will be
7
Ch06_UniversityLlibrary_20170816_en_cl

asked to pay for the replacement or repair of material and equipment that
is unreasonably damaged or rendered unusable. Users should follow
designated procedures for use of electronic media and software so as not
to damage or infringe on the use by others. Users should obey copyright
regulations and restricted use rules.
6.4.2 Responsibilities of Library Staff
Library staff will be available to assist patrons in the use of the physical
and electronic collections, and to maintain the University Collection in a
suitable condition for such use. Library staff are responsible for day-today activities of the library such as inventory control, book and journal
shelving, and ensuring security of the Collection. Library staff are
responsible for ensuring that library policies for fair use are observed.
Library staff provide training and assistance in the use of Library
collections for users.
6.4.3 Responsibilities of the Librarian
The Librarian is responsible for the daily operation of the Library,
maintenance and development of the Collection, maintenance and
training in information management required to support the electronic
databases and online resources of the Library, and the interaction of the
Library with other libraries and institutions. The Librarian is responsible
for performance of the Library staff, for managing the budget allocated to
the library, and for negotiating with suppliers and agents of publishers to
purchase new books and journal subscriptions.
6.4.4 Responsibilities of the Library Director
The Library Director is responsible for overall operation and management
of the Library. The Library Director will supervise library staff and
evaluate performance of the Librarian. The Library Director oversees the
assets of the library and operates within the approved library budget. The
Library Director has authority for making decisions for library related
issues and policies. The Library Director will meet with the Library
Committee [link: 6.8.5] at least twice a year to obtain recommendations
regarding operation of the Library and new purchases/deletions for the
Collection.
6.4.5 Responsibilities of the Library Committee
The Library Committee ［link: 6.8.5］ meets at least twice a year to
provide advice on the operation of the Library. This includes addition
and deletion of books, journals, databases, and other materials as
required by new faculty or new directions of research at the University
and on the best use of the Library budget. The Library Committee reports
at least once a year on Library activities to the Faculty Assembly. Details
on Library Committee are stipulated separately by the Library Director.
6.5 Procedures
6.5.1 Borrowing and returning books and other library
materials
[link: https://groups.oist.jp/library/book-purchase-request-oist-library]
8
Ch06_UniversityLlibrary_20170816_en_cl

6.5.2 Requesting purchase of new books
[link: https://groups.oist.jp/library/book-purchase-request-oist-library]
6.5.3 Requesting purchase of new journals and detabase
The library conducts a subscription survey for online journal requests
once a year. The unit or research section can submit their request per
unit/section during the survey.
6.5.4 Requesting book reservation
[link: https://groups.oist.jp/ja/library/book-reservation-request]
6.5.5 Requesting interlibrary loan
[link: https://groups.oist.jp/library/interlibrary-loan-ill-requests]
6.5.6 Requesting photo copies of books in the Library
When users request photo copies of library materials, they need to submit
the Photocopy Application Form [link: 6.6.2].
6.6 Forms
6.6.1 24-hour Library Access Request [Link;]
6.6.2 Photocopy Application Form [Link;]
6.6.3 Unregistered User Form [Link;]
6.7 Contacts
6.7.1 Policy Owner: The Dean of the Faculty Affairs
6.7.2 Specific details of Library policy and related issues may be
discussed with the Librarian in person or by email at library@oist.jp.
6.8 Definitions
6.8.1 Registered User: An individual who has OIST ID and security
cards.
6.8.2 Unregistered User: An individual who has no OIST ID and
security cards.
6.8.3 Librarian: The OIST employee assigned through the Office of
the Dean of the Faculty Affairs to carry out the responsibilities designated
in section 6.4.3.
6.8.4 Library Director: The Dean of the Faculty Affairs serves as the
Library Director.
6.8.5 Library Committee: The Library Committee [link:
https://groups.oist.jp/ja/library/library-committee-terms-reference]
includes members of the OIST academic community appointed by the
Dean of the Faculty Affairs.

9
Ch06_UniversityLlibrary_20170816_en_cl

OIST Graduate University
Policies, Rules and Procedures
Authority: Approved by the President

Chapter 7. Fundraising
7.1 Policy
Throughout history, private support for universities has been essential to their growth
and academic excellence. Even today, contributions and donations to colleges and
universities from individuals, the private sector, nonprofit foundations, and other
entities are critical to strengthening their physical and intellectual foundations. Such
support augments existing education and research programs and is indispensable for
new ventures in science and technology and for other advancement. Recognizing this,
gifts to, and fundraising for, the University is encouraged.
Fundraising at the University involves solicitation of contributions, donations, and gifts
as well as bequests, and devises, together referred to as “gifts” [link: 7.8]. Fundraising
also may proceed through University events (ticket sales) and sales of items bearing
University marks and logo.
All fundraising activity at the University must be supervised, coordinated, and directed
by and through the Fundraising office in the Office of the President [link: 2.4.1]. It is
the Fundraising office that, in consultation with the President , prioritizes fundraising
initiatives to meet the University’s objectives. These priorities are the main focus of the
Fundraising office’s efforts.
The President will maintain a prioritized list of donors who are approved for solicitation.
All solicitations and negotiations regarding gifts require the express prior approval of
the President.
Gifts in support of research are reviewed in coordination with the office of the President
to assure appropriate disposition and treatment.
7.2 General Considerations
7.2.1 Often donors are interested in whether a tax deduction is available for a gift
to the University. To ensure that a tax deduction is available, Gifts to the
University from United States’ donors are to be made through the Friends of
OIST Foundation and gifts to the University from Japanese donors must be made
through the Promotion and Mutual Aid Corporation for Private School of Japan
[Nihon Shiritsu Gakkou Shinkou Kyousai Jigyoudan].

1
ch07_fundraising_20170302_en_cl

7.2.2 Restricted Gifts, those made for a defined purpose or for an area of research
specified by the donor, deserve special attention and often involve negotiation
7.2.2.1 A restricted gift involving a designated area or aspect of research is
subject to the same research review process as research grants.(Chapter
4.8[link: 4.8])
7.2.3 Gifts that involve associated costs for the University to pay (e.g., the donor
pays building construction costs but the University must pay for building
maintenance and repairs) are acceptable but require close review.
7.2.4 Gifts vs Grants. A grant, which may be provided by governments, the
private sector, or a private individual donor, is not a “gift” because the grantor
effectively determines how the money is to be used, requires audits of expenditure,
places time and other constraints on the research, requires periodic reports, and
may obtain a commercial interest in the results of the research, among other things.
Additionally, grants (including private grants made by individuals) may be
subject to an indirect costs (overhead) assessment, whereas gifts will not be
subject to that imposition. Grants should be administered by the Grants and
Research Collaborations Section (in the office of the Dean of Research ) rather
than the Fundraising office. Thus it is very important to distinguish between a
gift and a grant.
7.2.4.1 Gifts. In general, donated funds are gifts when the following
characteristics exist:
- the donor intends to make a charitable contribution;
- the donor does not impose contractual requirements; and
- the funds are given irrevocably.
7.2.4.2 Private grants. In general, provision of funds are grants when any
of the following characteristics exist:
- there is provision for audits by or on behalf of the person providing
the money;
- the person providing the money is entitled to receive some
consideration such as a detailed technical report of research results
or a report of expenditures;
- the research is directed to satisfying specific requirements as
directed by the person providing the money (e.g., a precisely stated
scope of work to be accomplished within a specific period of time,
instead of a statement supporting a general area of research);
- a specified period for performance is prescribed, or termination is
at the discretion of the person providing the money;

2
ch07_fundraising_20170302_en_cl

-

funds that are unexpended at end of period are to be returned to
the person providing the money;
- patent or licensing rights are requested by the person providing the
money.
7.2.5 Gifts involving “matching funds” are permissible.
7.2.5.1 Care must be exercised to determine whether such a gift might
actually constitute a joint research collaboration, which should be referred
to the office of the President.
7.2.6 “In Kind” donations (items rather than money) to support a research
collaboration are subject to different rules and should be referred to the office of
the President for review.
7.2.7 Special attention must be paid to the nature of the agreement when a gift is
given by a commercial company. No direct profit-based advantage to a
commercial entity can be part of an agreement between the University and the
commercial enterprise making a gift.
7.3 Rules
7.3.1 All fund-raising activity at the University must be supervised, coordinated,
and directed by and through the Fundraising office [link: 2.4.1].
7.3.1.1 The President maintains a prioritized list of donors who are
approved for solicitation and this list must be consulted each time
fundraising occurs.
7.3.1.2 No solicitation or negotiation regarding a gift can be made
without the President’s explicit approval.
7.3.1.3 Gifts supporting specified research or specified aspects of
research must be reviewed in collaboration with the office of the
President.
7.3.2 No direct profit-based advantage, implied commercial return or other
benefit may result in favor of a commercial entity seeking to donate funds or
other gifts to the University. (Chapter 22.2) [link: 22.2]
7.3.2.1 Donations of specialized/unique research or other equipment
which may require servicing and maintenance by the donor’s
commercial enterprise require justification prior to acceptance.

3
ch07_fundraising_20170302_en_cl

7.3.3 Gifts which may involve donor use of the University names and marks
must be coordinated with the office of the Vice President for Public Relations
& Communication. (Chapter 16 [link: 16])
7.3.4 Fundraising proposals must satisfy the following criteria:
7.3.4.1 The funds raised will support a key mission or objective of the
University;
7.3.4.2 The fundraising arrangement will not breach any other contract held
by the University;
7.3.4.3 There is a connection between the University and the recipient of
any solicitations;
7.3.4.4 Recipients of the invitations or solicitations have not been the
subject of recent or repeated solicitations from the University; and
7.3.4.5 The number of similar promotional events over the last 12 months
has not been so excessive as to give the University an appearance of undue
commercialism.
7.3.5 Fundraising proposals based on sales of items to the public and use of the
University’s name, marks, or logos [link: 15] must demonstrate the following:
7.3.5.1 The commercial entity selected to provide the items has a very
high reputation for quality and service in its industry;
7.3.5.2 The commercial entity selected to provide the items to be sold
has values and operational practices that are consistent with the
University’s;
7.3.5.3 The product to be offered is of high quality; and
7.3.5.4 The price proposed by the entity selected to provide the items is
competitive within the relevant market.
7.3.6 All gifts to support research, whether ultimately characterized as a gift to
advance education or research, or as a private grant [link: 7.2.4], is subject to the
research review requirements established by the office of the President.
7.3.7 All fundraising is subject to the policies, rules, and procedures that apply
to all University Funds.

4
ch07_fundraising_20170302_en_cl

7.3.8 An acknowledgment of the offer of a gift must be promptly sent to the
donor, indicating that the gift offer has been received in the Fundraising office
and the date of that receipt. An acknowledgement of receipt of a gift offer is not
the same as an acceptance of that gift.
7.3.9 Once a gift has been formally accepted by the University, an acceptance
letter must be promptly sent to the donor indicating the date of acceptance (not
necessarily the same as the date of receipt or the date of the acknowledgement).
Acceptance letters must state the nature of the gift and the amount (if cash) or a
description of the gift sufficient to link it to the donor.
7.3.9.1 Gifts that are conditional are not considered “accepted” unless
the University agrees to all the conditions and then notifies the donor of
acceptance of the gift and its conditions.
7.3.10 Announcement of gifts may only be made by the Office of The President
[link: 2.4.1].
7.3.11 Processing and official receipting of gifts are handled exclusively by the
Fundraising office, in coordination with the office of the Vice President for
Financial Management [link: 2.4.5.4].
7.3.12 Students should not be solicited for funds; their involvement in
fundraising activities is limited to providing time and effort (and enthusiasm)
only. Any exceptions to this constraint must be approved by the President [link:
2.4.1] and the Dean of the Graduate School [link: 2.4.5.1].
7.4 Responsibilities
7.4.1 The President must be involved in the process of reviewing gifts and gift
proposals in conformance with the requirements set out in 7.2 and 7.3 of this
Chapter.
7.4.2 The President should actively participate in raising funds from the private
sector by identifying and developing relationships with potential donors as
requested by the Fundraising office.
7.4.3 Faculty may assist in fundraising activities by identifying potential donors
to the Fundraising office. Faculty must request the assistance from and work
through the Fundraising office in the event they identify or come upon potential
donors/donations.
7.4.4 Individual faculty should refrain from negotiating with donors in the
absence of first identifying the donor to the Fundraising office. This avoids a)
5
ch07_fundraising_20170302_en_cl

the potential embarrassment of more than one faculty member pursuing a donor
simultaneously and b) solicitation in the absence of full knowledge and a sound
solicitation plan.
7.5 Procedures
7.5.1 How to initiate a fundraising campaign
(TBD)
7.5.2 How to give notice of a potential donor
(TBD)
7.5.3 How to report a contribution or donation
(TBD)
7.5.4 How to makes gifts to the University
7.5.4.1 Money
(TBD)
7.5.4.2 Real Property
(TBD)
7.5.4.3 Personal Property
(TBD)
7.6 Forms
[TBD]
7.7 Contacts
7.7.1 Policy Owner: The President
7.7.2 Other Contacts: Fundraising office
7.8 Definitions
7.8.1 Bequest: The transfer of property (except real estate) under the terms of
a Last Will and Testament.
7.8.2. Contribution: A sum of money voluntarily provided in response to a
request or campaign seeking funds.
7.8.3. Deferred Gift: A gift divided into a present interest and a future interest,
6
ch07_fundraising_20170302_en_cl

usually by means of annuity, where the donor irrevocably gives one interest
(such as annuity payments to the University for a span of years starting at a
future date) but personally retains the remaining interest.
7.8.4 Designated Gifts (or Designated Funds): Gifts of money for a purpose
that is only loosely described by the donor. Typically, a designated gift merely
specifies a particular recipient, but the use of the money is not prescribed, e.g.,
JPY 3 m given as “shogakukifukin Fund (donation type)”, $5,000 donated for
use by the University Child Care Center, $500,000 donated to support the
Library, or $75,000 donated to the general endowment. The relevant decisionmakers and budget managers thus have some discretion to decide how
designated gifts are expended. Compare “restricted gifts”.
7.8.4.1 Shogakukifukin (donation type): a fund which is donated to
support education and research activities of the specific research unit
without requiring submission of a report on usage, etc. to the donor. See
“Instruction Regarding Shogakukifukin Fund (donation type)” [link:
http://10.251.17.133/7.8.4_Instruction%20regarding%20Shogakukifuki
n-fund_en_20120401.pdf]
7.8.5 Devise: The transfer of real estate under the terms of a Last Will and
Testament.
7.8.6 Donation: Money or other tangibles voluntarily given to a charity, church,
nonprofit educational institution or other nonprofit entity or foundation.
7.8.7 Gift: A thing (or things, including money) voluntarily transferred by one
person to another person or to an entity, without remuneration by or any other
form of consideration from the person or entity to whom the transfer was made.
7.8.8 Grant
7.8.8.1 Research Grant
Money given to individuals (and sometimes to groups) to explore various fields
of study, most often in response to a proposal seeking funding for a specific area
of research. Grants cover the cost of research plus provide the researcher(s) with
income. Governments, private sector entities, and individuals all fund research
through grants. A grant is not a “gift” because the grantor effectively
determines how the money is to be used, requires audits of expenditure, places
time and other constraints on the research, and requires periodic reports, among
other things. Applicant should seek for an approval by the Dean of Research
through the Grants and Research Collaborations Section before applying for
research grant .
The Grants and Research Collaborations Section or the Business Development
Section will assist the applicant in financial report, activity report, audit and
7
ch07_fundraising_20170302_en_cl

other required activities by grantor. Overheads from research grant shall be as
stipulated in the PRP 27.5.3.
7.8.8.2 Non-Research Grant
Non-Research Grant is important external funds to promote the University’s
operation. Non-Research Grant is money given to individuals (and sometimes
to groups) to response to a proposal seeking funding for a specific
administrative work. Applicant should seek for an approval by the Vice
President of applicant’s division. Applicant should report the details of the
application and screening result to the Grants and Research Collaborations
Section at the earliest possible. Applying division shall conduct financial
reporting, activity reporting, audit and other required activities by grantor on
division’s responsibility. Overheads from non-research grant shall be as
stipulated in the PRP 27.5.3. However, in the case that rules for overheads is
not specified by grantor, all received amount can be used for the purposes of the
grant.
7.8.9 Restricted Gifts (or Restricted Funds): Donated money specifically
designated as to both purpose and recipient by the donor, e.g., $200,000 to fund
summer research student stipends in chemical engineering, $5,000 to purchase
a specific item for evolutionary biology research, or $50,000 to the office of the
Dean of the Graduate School to be used to recruit geology students who also
play the tuba. The relevant decision-makers and budget managers have very
little or no discretion regarding the use of restricted gifts. Compare “designated
gifts”.

8
ch07_fundraising_20170302_en_cl

OIST Graduate University
Polices, Rules, & Procedures
Authority: Approved by the President

Chapter 8. Internal audit
8. 1
Policies
OIST Graduate University shall implement internal audits pertaining to business and
accounting (hereinafter referred to as “Audit”) of OIST. The purpose of the Audit
shall be to investigate and verify the legality of the business operation and accounting
processing of OIST fairly and objectively and give advice and a proposal based on the
audit results, thereby contributing to securing the sound and smooth operation of the
OIST.
8. 2

General Considerations
8.2.1 Types of Audit
As for the Audit, there are two types; audit of business affairs and audit of
accounting.
8.2.1.1
Audit of Business Affairs
The audit of business affairs shall be implemented so as to determine
whether or not business and administrative operation of OIST is
executed appropriately in compliance with laws and regulations, and
policies, rules, and procedures of OIST and other related regulations,
and is carried out effectively.
8.2.1.1.1 The audit of business affairs may be carried out
at the time of implementing the audits by the OIST
Auditors.
8.2.1.2
Audit of Accounting
The audit of accounting shall be implemented so as to determine
whether or not accounting of OIST is processed through fair
documentary evidence and whether or not forms, etc. are recorded
appropriately in accordance with laws and regulations, and policies,
rules, and procedures of OIST and other related regulations, etc.
8.2.1.2.1 The audit of accounting may be implemented by
using the ERP System.
8.2.2

Classification of the Audit
1
ch08_internal-audit_en_20180401_cl

Classification of the Audit shall be periodical audit and extraordinary audit.
8.2.2.1
year.

The periodical audit shall be implemented each

8.2.2.2
The extraordinary audit shall be implemented
whenever necessary on matters ordered by the
CEO/President or matters which the Chief Compliance
Officer (hereinafter referred to as “CCO”) deems
necessary.
8.3

Rules
8.3.1 Implementation of the Audit
The CCO shall implement the Audit based on the instructions of the
CEO/President.
8.3.2 Audit Plan
The CCO shall, in advance, prepare the annual audit plan in which basic audit
policies, audit items, audit outlines, and other necessary matters are
described and obtain the approval of the CEO/President. However, this shall
not apply to an extraordinary audit.
8.3.3 Internal Auditors
Staff of the Compliance Section under the CCO (staff who implement the
Audit including the CCO shall be referred to as the “Internal Auditors”
collectively hereinafter) shall implement the Audit under the CCO.
8.3.4 Notification of Implementation
The CCO shall give a written notice to heads of the Sections/Divisions, etc.
subject to the Audit in advance when implementing the Audit. Provided,
however, that in the case where the situation is urgent and it is deemed
particularly necessary, the VPAC may give such notice verbally.
8.3.5 Request of Report,
In implementing the Audit, the Internal Auditors may request relevant
Sections/Divisions, etc. subject to the Audit to submit related materials,
explanation of the facts, and reports and carry out other actions necessary for
implementing the Audit so that the Audit can be implemented efficiently and
effectively.
8.3.5.1
The Sections/Divisions, etc. subject to the Audit
may not reject the request of 8.3.5 without legitimate
reasons.
2
ch08_internal-audit_en_20180401_cl

8.3.6 Confidentiality
The Internal Auditors shall not reveal to others any matters that are acquired
in the course of fulfilling their duties without legitimate reasons.
8.3.7 Exchange of Opinions after the Audit
After the completion of the Audit, the Internal Auditors shall hold a review
and exchange opinions with the Sections/Divisions, etc. subject to the Audit
to explain the audit results and confirm problems.
8.3.8 Cooperation with Other Audit Functions
The CCO and the Compliance Section must endeavor to improve audit
efficiency by cooperating and coordinating with the OIST Auditors and
Accounting Auditors.
8.4

Obligations
8.4.1 CCO
The CCO shall report to the CEO/President concerning the implementation
status of the Audit and its results. In addition, the CCO shall provide
explanation of the audit results for the Sections/Divisions, etc. subject to the
Audit.
8.4.2 CEO/President
8.4.2.1
If the CEO/President deems it necessary to take
measures and actions, etc. for improvements of business,
he/she shall instruct the heads
of relevant
Sections/Divisions, etc. to take such measures and actions.
8.4.2.2
The CEO/President must have the CCO confirm
implementation status of such measures based on the
submission of 8.4.3.
8.4.3 Heads of the Sections/Divisions, etc. subject to the Audit
When receiving instructions of 8.4.2.1, the heads of the Sections/Divisions,
etc. subject to the Audit must promptly implement such measures and submit
the results to the CEO/President in writing.
8.4.4 Staff
Staff of the Sections/Divisions, etc. subject to the Audit must cooperate so
that the Audit will be implemented efficiently and effectively.

8.5

Procedures
3
ch08_internal-audit_en_20180401_cl

N/A
8.6

Forms
N/A

8.7

Contact
8.7.1 Person in charge of the Policies: CCO
8.7.2 Other point of contact: Compliance Section

8.8

Definitions
N/A

4
ch08_internal-audit_en_20180401_cl

OIST Graduate University
Policy, Rules & Procedures
Authority: Approved by the Auditors
Chapter 9. Auditors’ Audit
9.1 Policy
Audits by the Auditors are conducted at the Okinawa Institute of Science and
Technology School Corporation (hereinafter referred to as “School Corporation”)
in accordance with Article 15 of the Okinawa Institute of Science and Technology
School
Corporation
Bylaws
[link:
https://groups.oist.jp/sites/default/files/imce/u113/oistsc_bylaws.pdf]. Audits
by the Auditors are conducted to promote legitimate and efficient business and
administrative operations of the School Corporation as well as proper accounting.
9.2 General Considerations
9.2.1 Standards of Audit Activity
Audits by the Auditors are conducted based on the relevant laws, Bylaws
and School Corporation’s policies and regulations that are stipulated
from those laws. When implementing the audit activity, the Auditors
shall respect the autonomous nature of the education and research at the
University.
9.3 Responsibilities
9.3.1 General Employees
Employees of audited sections/divisions must cooperate with the audit
activities to ensure efficient and productive implementation of the audit.
9.3.2 Person in Charge of Each Sections/Divisions
When important issues or irregular incidents arise in the workplace, the
concerned responsible personnel of the School Corporation or the
University must immediately report to the Auditors orally or in writing.
9.3.3 Audit Employees
ch09_auditor’s-audit_en_20180401_cl

With the approval of the CEO, the Auditors may receive assistance from
employees who fall under the Chief Compliance Officer (hereinafter
referred to as “CCO”) or other employees and direct them to assist in
necessary audit activities.
9.3.4 Duties of the Audit Employees
Employees engaged in Audit activities stipulated by 9.3.3 may not
disclose any information they learn or come across during the audit
activities to other employees who are outside of the audit team or any
external contacts.
9.3.5 Duties of the Auditors
9.3.5.1 Preparing Audit Report
Every fiscal year, the Auditors must prepare an Audit Report and
submit the report to the Board of Governors (BOG) and the Board
of Councilors (BOC) within two months after the end of preceding
fiscal year.
9.3.5.1.1 For a Special Audit, the report must be
submitted to the CEO within a month after the
implementation of the audit.
9.3.5.1.2 Auditors may add opinions in the report when
deemed necessary.
9.3.5.2 Meeting Attendance and Expression of Opinions
Auditors may attend BOG, BOC and other important meetings
and express opinions. When the Auditors are unable to attend
these meetings, they may receive explanation of the meeting
agendas from the CEO/President, the Vice CEO/Provost or
concerned employees and view relevant documents.
9.3.6 Duties of the CEO
The CEO must deliberate and assess the Audit Report and the Auditors’
opinions and then provide a remedial action plan. Measures and actions
ch09_auditor’s-audit_en_20180401_cl

taken to correct the discrepancies and the resulting effects must be
provided in writing to the Auditors.
9.4 Procedures
9.4.1 Scope
Auditors conduct audits on the overall operation and asset condition of
the School Corporation. Specifically, audits shall be conducted on the
following items:
(a)
Condition of enacting and practicing the relevant laws and school
(b)
(c)

policies and regulations.
Business and management condition of the School Corporation
and University.
Administrative performance condition of overall system and
organization of the School Corporation and University.
Personnel management condition.
Implementation status of budgets, business plans and financial

(d)
(e)
plans.
(f)
Expenditure and management conditions of cash, etc.
(g)
Condition of financial supply-demand and the management.
(h)
(i)
(j)

Property acquisition, management, and disposal conditions.
Safety management conditions.
Other issues necessary for the achievement of healthy and stable
operation of the School Corporation.

9.4.2 Types and Methods of Audit
There are two types of audits: Periodical Audits which are conducted
periodically, and Special Audits which are conducted on an as-needed
basis.
9.4.2.1 Document Audit
Only documents that are created and managed by the School
Corporation will be subject to audits. When implementing
document audits, documents pertaining to accounting, contracts,
and other necessary forms are subject of Document Audit. This
also includes but is not limited to all the logs and records from
the School Corporation’s computer systems.
ch09_auditor’s-audit_en_20180401_cl

9.4.2.2 Field Audits
Audits may also be conducted at the employee’s workplace, where
employees are interviewed and explanations may be requested.
9.4.3 Implementation Procedure
Audits by the Auditors shall follow the procedures stated in the Chapter unless
otherwise stipulated separately.
9.4.3.1 Auditors must prepare audit plans every fiscal year and inform the
CEO in advance. However, Special Audits are conducted whenever deemed
necessary, and therefore no advance notice is required.
9.4.3.2 The head of a section/division that will be audited will receive a
written notice of a Periodical Audit in advance.
9.4.3.3 In case of a Special Audit, no advance notice is issued.
9.4.3.4 The head of an audited section/division is responsible for
cooperating for a smooth conduct of the audit activity. The includes but is
not limited to preparing documents pertinent to the items on the advance
notice form.
9.4.4 Documents to be Audited and Sent to the Auditors
Documents

stipulated

in

Bylaws

Article

31[link:

https://groups.oist.jp/sites/default/files/imce/u113/oistsc_bylaws.pdf] must be
sent up to the Auditors for the purpose of audit. The following documents must also
be sent up to the Auditors after they have been approved by the determining
authority (Kessai) for they are crucial in assessing the condition of the School
Corporation’s administrative operation.
(a)

Documents concerning enactment, revision and abolition of the Bylaws,
regulations, stipulations, and other policies of the School Corporation

(b)

Documents requesting for an approval or authorization or other important
documents prepared for the Prime Minister and the Minister of Education,
Culture, Sport, Science and Technology

(c)

Documents concerning the determination of the basic policies for the
ch09_auditor’s-audit_en_20180401_cl

School Corporation’s business and administrative operation
(d)

Important documents concerning contracts

(e)

Important documents concerning lawsuits and petitions

(f)

Important documents for submission to the Board of Audit

(g)

Important documents concerning an approval or authorization from the
Prime Minister or the Minister of Education, Culture, Sport, Science and
Technology

(h)

Important documents issued from Government offices other than the
Cabinet Office or Ministry of Education, Culture, Sport, Science and
Technology

(i)

Other important documents, both issued and received, concerning School
Corporation’s operation

9.5 Contacts
9.5.1 Policy Owner: Auditors

ch09_auditor’s-audit_en_20180401_cl

OIST Graduate University
Policies, Rules and Procedures
Authority: Approved by the President

Chapter 10. Land, Buildings and Facilities
10.1

Policy

The land belonging to, and the buildings and facilities constructed at, OIST
Graduate University (the University) are resources intended to serve the various
purposes of the University.

The fundamental role of the Division of Buildings &

Facility Management at the University is to manage these resources to provide,
operate and maintain an environment that will enable all members of the
University community to carry out their work effectively in a safe and attractive
setting.

University policy is that the facilities and services provided must be sufficient,
efficient and reliable, but not extravagant. The University has an obligation to
utilize funding, whether from public or private sources, for construction,
operation, and maintenance in a sound and responsible manner, and it is
University policy always to endeavor to achieve the most cost-effective use of
funds available.

This chapter addresses acquisition, use, security and upkeep of the campus
grounds, built facilities and major elements of plant and equipment (excluding
laboratory equipment) at the University.

Policies, rules and procedures for land

acquisition and procurement of construction are set out in Chapter 26, Finance
& Accounting [link: 26] and in Chapter 28, Procurement [link: 28], while
procedures relating to the allocation of space and use of laboratory equipment are
1
ch10_land-buildings-and-facilities_en_20180115 cl

set out in Chapters 19, University Events [link: 19] and 21, Use of University
Resources [link: 21].

10.1.1

Access to lab areas by outside parties

The basic policy for access to lab areas by outside parties is as follows.

1.

In principle, outside parties who are not directly engaged in
OIST research activities do not have access to the Lab buildings
or Administrative Office areas.

2.

Exceptions will be made to enable necessary construction and
equipment installation works and deliveries to be made in an
efficient manner-but in such a way that:
a.

there is minimal disturbance to lab users, and

b.

good operational security is maintained on the campus.

OIST

reserves

the

right

to

cancel

this

exceptional

authorization without notice nor explanation should the
condition above not being fulfilled.
3.

Exceptions will also be made when government agencies,
educational and research institutions, corporations, and media
visit lab buildings for campus tours guided by OIST employees
or students.

4.

Outside parties when permitted to enter inside OIST
acknowledge that they do so at their own risk.
a.

Accident in OIST properties is at their own risk.

b.

OIST will not bear any responsibilities for lost or stolen
personal belongings in OIST properties.

c.

If there is trouble or accident, ask OIST staff to call
Security Center immediately.
2
ch10_land-buildings-and-facilities_en_20180115 cl

10.2

General Considerations

10.2.1

Adequate funding must be budgeted each year to ensure that

the infrastructure of the University campus is maintained in excellent
condition. This obligation includes forward planning to ensure that
sufficient funds are available when major overhaul or replacement of
elements of the infrastructure becomes necessary during the life of the
University. For this purpose, the term ‘infrastructure’ shall be
understood

to

include,

among

other

things,

the

campus

buildings(Chapter 10.8 [link: 10.8]).

10.2.2

Most of the 213ha Onna campus is owned by and leased free-

of-charge from Onna Village, on an automatically renewing 10-year
lease first entered into in November 2011(Lease Agreement ) [link:
http://iwww.oist.jp/document/prp-aux/10.2.2_lease_agreement.pdf].
Any proposal to allow use of leased areas by a third party must be
approved by Onna Village in advance. The University also owns the
8.7ha site known as the Seaside Campus, which comprises the Seaside
House building, eight units of faculty housing and an area of
undeveloped land.

10.2.3

The University must use its financial resources for construction

in accordance with the obligations and conditions attached to the use of
those resources, if any. Most of the University’s budget is provided by
the Japanese government; therefore the University complies with
Japanese public works procurement policies for all nationally funded
construction and related works above defined values (Chapter 28)[link:
3
ch10_land-buildings-and-facilities_en_20180115 cl

28]. At the same time, the University aims to achieve the most rational
and cost-effective construction procurement possible, so every effort
must be made to minimize paperwork and inefficient procurement
practices.

10.2.4

The University must minimize the impact of the campus

development and all activities taking place within it on the natural
environment. To this end, a comprehensive Environmental Impact
Assessment was carried out by an independent consultant prior to the
commencement of site development. This assessment identified several
species of flora and fauna on the site subject to protection, and set out
numerous conditions for the development of the site. Ongoing
environmental impact monitoring is conducted of construction
activities to ensure that the conditions stipulated in the EIA Report are
being observed. In addition, the University must satisfy prescribed
standards for air and water quality in all its activities, and in respect of
all waste emitted from the facilities (Chapter 13) [link: 13].

10.2.5

The Campus Village at the University has been developed

under a Public Private Partnership whereby a Special Purpose Company
(SPC) established by a commercial consortium has undertaken to build
the housing and related facilities on the campus and then operate them
on the University’s behalf for 30 years after completion. The details of
the contractual arrangement between the University and the SPC are set
out in the Project Contract. The relative roles and responsibilities of the
SPC and University with respect to the management, operation and
maintenance of the Campus Village are complex, and the Project
Contract should be referred to when any activity by the University that
4
ch10_land-buildings-and-facilities_en_20180115 cl

impinges on the Campus Village is contemplated. The rules and
procedures related to utilization of the Village by University personnel
(including leasing procedures and conditions, tenant rights and
responsibilities, use of shared facilities, etc.) are currently under
development.

10.3

Rules

10.3.1

Budget Availability takes Precedence.

No commitment to carry out any construction or modification of the
facilities shall be made unless the funds necessary for the work are
available in the budget.

An exception may be granted by the President

if the construction is funded in installments by a private donor or entity.

10.3.2

Statutory Compliance.

Construction works and the installation of facilities at OIST, and the use
and maintenance of same, must comply with all relevant laws and
regulations in Japan. Some of these are set out in Table 10.1 [link:
http://iwww.oist.jp/document/prp-aux/10.3.2_Table10.1.pdf].

10.3.3

Access to University Buildings and Grounds.

Access must be provided as freely and unobtrusively as possible
consistent with security (Chapter 21.1)[link: 21.1]. Priority of access is
as follows:

First - faculty, students, other researchers, Senior Level

Executives, and staff; second – authorized vendors & contractors; third
– OIST family members and the general public.

5
ch10_land-buildings-and-facilities_en_20180115 cl

10.3.3.1 Although the campus grounds are in principle open to
the general public, access to the Onna Campus buildings is
controlled at the points of entry to the buildings. Everyone
entering the campus buildings shall be required to comply with
the security procedures in force. In general, rules of access are as
follows:
-

Students shall be issued a security pass card upon
registration.

– Researchers (including scientific visitors, collaborators,
interns and invited guests), employees shall be issued with
a security pass card upon joining the University community,
which will give them access to differing areas of the
buildings depending on their need, and the training
required, for access.
– Guests, vendors, OIST family members and general visitors
shall be issued a different identifying pass card upon
signing in at the entrance reception.
The above rules will be waived only for special events such as
open days, at which times access to most areas of the buildings
will be strictly limited and controlled.

10.3.3.2 Vendor, etc. Access to Labs

1.

Contractors and equipment installation engineers doing
work in the buildings must register at the Security Office
by the Lab 1 loading dock, and will then be given an
armband and Security card with limited access.

6
ch10_land-buildings-and-facilities_en_20180115 cl

2.

Vendors and others making sales calls or coming to
OIST for meetings, product seminars, etc. should make
an appointment, enter the campus at the Tunnel
Entrance (OIST gallery) on the ground level, register at
the security desk, and meet their OIST contact at the
meeting tables on Level A of the Center Buildings, on
Level C of Lab 2 just inside the Skywalk entrance, or in
the Cafeteria. Such visitors will not be issued with a
Security card and will not be permitted entry to the labs
unless specifically invited and hosted by a member of
faculty.

3.

In principle, lab supply deliveries should be picked up
from the Supply Center (Procurement) by unit staff, and
take acceptance inspection by supply center staff.
However, vendors making regular deliveries to labs may
continue to be given access to the Lab areas, provided
they do not undertake unsolicited sales activities.

4.

Mail and courier deliveries at Supply center, and will be
distributed to units by Supply Center (Procurement)
staff (printed materials only). However all packages,
boxes, etc. should be picked up from the Supply Center
by unit staff, and take acceptance inspection by supply
center staff.

NOTE: Safety Training
(1) Vendors, contractors, and other entering lab areas
on an occasional basis should read the OIST leaflet
“Safety

Precautions

in

Lab

Areas”

[link:

7
ch10_land-buildings-and-facilities_en_20180115 cl

http://rs.oist.jp/docs/safety_precautions_for_lab
_tour_111101.pdf]
(2) Vendors

entering

lab

areas

regularly

shall

participate in a safety training session organized by
the Research Safety Section at least once a year.

10.3.4

Land Use Planning & Design

The overall development of the University’s Onna Campus has been
carried out in line with a Master Plan prepared in 2006 and approved
by the Board of Governors of the OIST Promotion Corporation. No
construction at the University shall be carried out without reference to
this Master Plan [link: http://www.oist.jp/master-plan-0], and all
proposals for construction, whether for a new building or for
modification of an existing facility (interior or exterior), must be
referred in advance to the Vice President for Buildings and Facilities
Management (VPBFM) [link: 2.4.5], who shall be responsible for
determining whether they are in accordance with the Master Plan.

10.3.4.1

Over time, the addition of facilities not envisaged in

the original campus master plan can be expected. In this case,
the Vice President for Buildings and Facilities Management
shall commission additional planning and/or design work to
ensure that such facilities are integrated into the overall
campus in a planned and consistent way (Chapter 10.4)[link:
10.4]. Such additional facilities must:
1) maintain the quality of the built environment at the
University, and
8
ch10_land-buildings-and-facilities_en_20180115 cl

2) not compromise the potential for further
construction in future.
Final responsibility for determining whether the above criteria
are achieved in any such proposed expansion of the facilities is
vested in the Board of Governors.

10.3.5

Energy Conservation & Recycling.

Sophisticated laboratory buildings inevitably use a great deal of energy
to maintain precise environmental conditions within laboratory spaces
and to operate certain research equipment. However, considerable
effort has been made in the specification, design and construction of
University buildings to ensure that they are as energy efficient as
possible. While every University user has an obligation to utilize the
facilities in a responsible manner and conserve resources to the greatest
extent possible, the Division of Buildings & Facility Management is
primarily responsible for monitoring and managing energy, water and
other resource usage throughout the campus, and shall develop and
implement appropriate measures on a continuous improvement basis to
achieve optimal resource conservation.

10.3.5.1 Pursuant to the Article 7-2 of the “Act on the Rational
Use of Energy” (Act No.49 of 1979), an Energy Management
Supervisor is appointed to promote energy conservation at
OIST. VPBFM shall serve the position.

10.3.5.2 “Energy Management Regulation” is prescribed
separately for appropriate and effective implementation of the
rational use of energy at OIST.
9
ch10_land-buildings-and-facilities_en_20180115 cl

10.3.5.3 The energy management supervisor establishes the
“Energy Management Committee”, which investigates and
discusses the energy management and energy saving at OIST
upon advice from the CEO/President. Details of the “Energy
Management Committee” are prescribed separately.

10.3.6

Historic and Archaeological Preservation.

Before construction commenced on the Onna Campus, a survey was
carried out to identify historic or archaeological artifacts on the site.
Reference must be made to this survey and its findings taken into
account when any new construction is proposed on the campus. In the
course of construction, if any such artifacts are uncovered, the
construction work in the area must be suspended, and notice given to
the Vice President for Buildings and Facilities Management, who must
then take immediate action to have such artifacts examined by a
competent authority, and determine the appropriate subsequent course
of action (Chapter 10.4) [link: 10.4].

10.3.7

Disaster Preparedness and Operational Continuity.

The Division of Buildings & Facility Management shall develop,
implement and maintain measures and procedures to ensure that the
safety of University users can be assured in the event of foreseeable
natural disasters such as typhoon, flood or earthquake, or incidents such
as fire, power failure or other potentially disruptive emergency on or off
campus. This role shall include ensuring that the operation and
10
ch10_land-buildings-and-facilities_en_20180115 cl

activities of the university can be preserved and continued with minimal
interruption after any such event. See also Chapter 13, Safety, Health,
and Environmental Protection [link: 13].

This work shall include the preparation, in conjunction with other
Divisions, of a ‘red book’ setting out emergency contact and operational
procedures in the event of an incident; ensuring that standby power
systems and other resources (including stocks of emergency supplies)
are available and in good condition; and organizing appropriate training
of all University personnel in emergency procedures to ensure that the
safety and welfare of everyone can be maintained.

10.3.7.1

The University must establish clear procedures for

responding to an emergency situation(Chapter 13.3.17) [link:
13.3.17].

10.3.7.2

The University must provide emergency response

training to all employees and must inform visitors and guests
of emergency response requirements.
10.3.7.2.1 Building evacuation drills must be held, in
accordance with the procedures and requirements of
the Fire Prevention Plan [link: 10.3.8], at least once
during the school year.

10.3.7.3

The power distribution system shall be inspected

and maintained regularly, in accordance with the procedures
set by the Facilities Management Section.

11
ch10_land-buildings-and-facilities_en_20180115 cl

10.3.7.4 The Disaster Recovery System shall be inspected and
maintained regularly, in accordance with the procedures set by
the Facilities Management Section.

10.3.8

Fire Prevention Planning

This plan, based on the Fire Prevention Act [link:
http://www.japaneselawtranslation.go.jp/law/detail/?re=01&dn=1&x
=0&y=0&co=1&yo=&gn=&sy=&ht=&no=&bu=&ta=&ky=%E6%B6%8
8%E9%98%B2%E6%B3%95&page=2] (Act No. 186 of 1948), Article 8,
Paragraph 1, sets out the necessary fire prevention measures for the
University facilities located in Tancha, Onna Village designed to
protect against fire, earthquake or other disaster, ensure life safety and
minimize damage. For details, see the University Fire Prevention and
Control Plan [link: ].

10.3.9

Use of Facilities

If planning to use University facilities for a purpose other than that for
which they were intended, you must advise the Facilities Management
Section in advance. Use will not be permitted in the following
circumstances:
•

When it would interfere with educational or research
activities or a University-related event;

•

When there is the risk of damage or defacement of the
facilities;

•

For any political activity;

•

For any activity which attacks the reputation of any
individual or organization; or

•

If the Facilities Management Section determines that
12
ch10_land-buildings-and-facilities_en_20180115 cl

the activity would impair, impede, or conflict with the
management of University facilities.

The management, reservation and use of University rooms and other
spaces for teaching/lectures are the responsibility of the Dean of the
Graduate School [link: 2.4.5].

Reservation and use of University rooms and spaces for other purposes
is the responsibility of the Community Relations Section of the
Division of Communication and Public Relations, and the related rules
and procedures are set out in Chapter 21, Use of University Resources
[link: 21].

Policies, rules and procedures concerning use of other University
resources, including Common Space, can be found in Chapter 21, Use
of University Resources [link: 21].

10.3.10 Use of Car Park Space
10.3.10.1 Management of Parking lots: All parking spaces on
OIST are controlled and maintained by the Facility
Management Section of Buildings and Facilities Management
Division. Any inquiry, complaint, or request regarding parking
spaces should be addressed to the Facility Management Section.

10.3.10.2 Parking Enforcement: All parking regulations are
enforced 24 hours a day, unless otherwise stated.

13
ch10_land-buildings-and-facilities_en_20180115 cl

10.3.10.3 Liability: Vehicle owners and operators park on
campus at their own risk. OIST assumes no risk or liability for
damage or loss (including the vehicle’s contents) while any
vehicle is parked on OIST property. This includes damage
incurred if the vehicle is wheel locked.

10.4

Responsibilities

10.4.1

The Vice President for Buildings and Facilities Management is

responsible for ensuring that these policies and rules are applied
consistently and adhered to at all times. The Vice President is also
responsible for explaining matters related to construction and facility
management to the University Executive and, as appropriate, to the
community as a whole. The Vice President is also responsible for
receiving, evaluating, communicating decisions, and implementing
agreed requests for new construction, modifications to facilities and
allocation of space on the Campus.

10.4.2

The Campus Building Section is primarily responsible for land

acquisition and new construction, and for necessary interactions with
central and local government departments in connection with
construction matters. This Section is also responsible for the
management of non-academic spaces (including administration and
Campus Village areas).

10.4.3

The Facilities Operation & Use Section is primarily responsible

for the fit-out and modification of the buildings and facilities to
accommodate research equipment and to meet the operational
14
ch10_land-buildings-and-facilities_en_20180115 cl

requirements of researchers. This Section is also responsible for
managing and tracking the allocation of space to researchers and
preparing laboratories.

10.4.4

The Facility Management Section is primarily responsible for

the overall operation and maintenance of all land and facilities utilized
by the University at the Onna Campus and elsewhere. This includes
responsibility for optimizing the use of energy, water and other utilities.
This Section is also responsible for vehicles, safety (except the safety of
research activities, which is the responsibility of the Dean of Research
link: 13]), access management and the physical security of the campus
and facilities.

It shall procure and manage, among other things,

janitorial, landscaping, and security services for the University’s
buildings and land.

10.4.5

There is inevitably overlap among the responsibilities set out

above, and when and as necessary, all staff of the Division of Buildings
& Facility Management shall cooperate to ensure efficient construction,
operation and maintenance of the University, and to ensure that there
are no gaps in the services provided.

10.5

Procedures

10.5.1

How

to

Request

Permanent/Semi-Permanent

Allocation of Space.
Complete and send the designated form [link: ] to the Facilities
Operation & Use Section. Only request space required within the next 3
months (although longer term plans can be noted on the form as well).
15
ch10_land-buildings-and-facilities_en_20180115 cl

Space requests will then be processed by the Section taking into account
space available and other requests

NOTE: Allocation of class rooms

and similar teaching spaces must be coordinated through the Office of
the Dean of the Graduate School.

10.5.2

How to Request Modification of Facilities and

Buildings.
Initially, contact the Vice President or one of the Section Leaders of the
Buildings & Facility Management Division. They will make a
preliminary evaluation of the request, and if it is considered feasible, will
then request detailed information on specification, proposed timing, etc.
If the proposed construction is major (if it comprises more than a
renovation), the Vice President for Buildings and Facilities Management
must bring the proposal to the Executive for consideration.

Some

changes can be made internally, but others will require the involvement
of external consultants and contractors.

10.5.3

How to Request New Construction.

Initially, contact the Vice President for Buildings and Facilities
Management, who will make a preliminary evaluation of the request. If
it is determined to be feasible and in keeping with the overall Master
Plan for the University, more detailed information (e.g., amount of
space required, specification, proposed timing, etc.) will be required.
New construction will often require specific budget request and
allocation in a future fiscal year, so requests should be made well in
advance.

10.5.4

To Obtain a Security Pass
16
ch10_land-buildings-and-facilities_en_20180115 cl

A security card for a newly arriving employee, researcher or student will
be requested to the Facilities Management Section by the HR
Management Section. A request for a new security card for any other
party (vendor, guest, contractor, visitor, etc.) should be made to the
Facilities Management Section after obtaining the approval of the
responsible person in the Unit or Section making the request, using the
designated form [link:]. Applications should be made at least 3 days in
advance.

10.5.5

To Change Access Rights on Security Pass

An application to change the access rights on a security card should be
made on the designated form [link:] after receiving the approval of the
supervisor of the person requesting the change, or approval from the
related facility management person in charge. Applications should be
made at least 3 days in advance.

10.5.6

To Allow Use of Security Pass by Outside Party

A request to lend a security pass to an outside party (e.g. a visitor or
workshop participant) should be made using the designated form [link:]
after receiving approval from the person in charge of the related section
or unit. Applications should be made 1 week in advance

10.5.7

To Apply for Use or Duplication of a Key

Keys to rooms or equipment in the facilities will be provided when
necessary. A request to use a key should be made using the designated
form [link:] after receiving approval from the person in charge of the
related Section or Unit. When a copy of a key is needed, a request should
be issued to the Facilities Management Section using the designated
17
ch10_land-buildings-and-facilities_en_20180115 cl

form [link:]. Users must not make copies of keys themselves.
Applications should be made 1 week in advance.

10.5.8

When a Security Pass or Key is Lost

When you lose a security pass or key, advise the Facilities Management
Section immediately.

Explain the circumstances to your supervisor,

and after obtaining their approval, submit a notification using the
designated form [link:].

Every effort must be made to locate the lost

item, and in certain cases, you may be asked to submit a letter explaining
the circumstances of the loss.

10.5.9

To Change the Security Setting of a Facility or Room

To change the security setting of a facility or room, obtain the approval
of the person responsible for the space then submit a request to the
Facilities Management Section using the designated form [link:].
Applications should be made 1 week in advance. If a programming
change or construction work is required, the date of the change will be
set after separate consultation.

10.5.10 To Request Non-routine Cleaning Service
When cleaning other than the scheduled daily or regular cleaning is
required, submit a request to the Facilities Management Section using
the designated form [link:]. In principle, applications should be made 1
week in advance. However, in the event of an accident during an
experiment or other emergency, you can contact the Facilities
Management Section or Central Control Room directly. In this case, the
form should be submitted after the clean-up has taken place.

18
ch10_land-buildings-and-facilities_en_20180115 cl

10.5.11

To Apply for Short-term Use of Carpark

When it is necessary to secure parking spaces for short-term use such as
a tour of the campus, event, committee meeting or workshop, submit a
request using the designated form [link:]. Applications should be made
1 week in advance.

10.5.12 To Obtain Approval to Carry out Work within the
University (Construction, Installation of Equipment, etc.)
When a vendor or contractor is to perform work within the facilities, a
request should be submitted using the designated form [link:].
Applications should be submitted 2 weeks in advance, and work within
the facilities must be carried out in accordance with the Work Execution
Plan

10.5.13 To Lodge a Claim related to Facility Condition
If you have a problem concerning the air-conditioning, cleanliness of a
facility, or other general issue concerning the facilities or building
services, submit a claim using the designated form [link:]. The Facilities
Management Section will investigate the issue and if necessary take
urgent action. In any event the Facilities Management Section shall
respond to the claim within 1 week.

10.6

Forms
10.6.1 Space Allocation Request Form[link:]
10.6.2 New Request for Security Pass[link:]
10.6.3 Request to Change Access Rights on Security Pass[link:]
10.6.4 Request to Allow Use of Security Pass by Outside Party[link:]
10.6.5 Request for Use or Copying of a Key[link:]
19
ch10_land-buildings-and-facilities_en_20180115 cl

10.6.6 Notification of Loss of Security Pass or Key[link:]
10.6.7 Request to Change Security Setting of a Facility or Room[link:]
10.6.8 Request for Non-routine Cleaning Service[link:]
10.6.9 Request for Short-term Use of Carpark[link:]
10.6.10 Request for Approval to Carry out Work with the
University[link:]
10.6.11 Form to Lodge a Claim related to Facility Condition[link:]

10.7

Contacts

10.7.1

Policy Owner:

Vice President for Buildings and Facilities

Management

10.7.2

Other Contacts:

New construction: Campus Construction Section (ext. 18644)
Power, special gas, etc. requirements for lab facilities or equipment:
Facility Operation & Use Section (ext 18591)
General facility, building services, fire prevention, security related
matters: Facility Management Section (ext 12315)

10.8

Definitions
10.8.1

Infrastructure.

For

purposes

of

this

Chapter,

“infrastructure” means all site improvements, including roads, bridges,
tunnels, lakes and catchment ponds, pathways and retaining walls; all
vegetation and landscaping; all exterior lighting and signage; all utilities,
above and below ground, including electricity, water and drainage, and
communications; and all buildings and structures erected on the site
and all building services within those buildings.
20
ch10_land-buildings-and-facilities_en_20180115 cl

10.8.2

Facilities. Infrastructure as defined above. All systems and

equipment installed in the buildings, except items of research
equipment installed by or for the specific use of researchers; vehicles
and related items. [NOTE: Management and maintenance of leased
equipment is dealt with in Chapter 28, Procurement [link: 28];
management and maintenance of IT and AV equipment is dealt with in
Chapter 17, Information Technology & Security [link: 17].]

10.8.3

Employees. For purposes of this Chapter, the term

“employees” includes those who are directly employed by the School
Corporation/University as well as individuals who are under contract to
perform security, cleaning, facility management, and similar (also
referred to as “contractors”).

10.8.4

Central Control Room. Room located in Laboratory 1 where

control and monitoring of the Fire Defense Equipment, etc. is carried
out.

21
ch10_land-buildings-and-facilities_en_20180115 cl

OIST Graduate University
Policies, Rules & Procedures
Authority:
 Approved by the President
 Act on Management of Official Documents, etc. (Document Management Act)
 Act on Access to Information Held by Incorporated Administrative Agencies
(Information Access Act)
 Act on the Protection of Personal Information Held by Incorporated
Administrative Agencies (Personal Information Protection Act)
 School Education Act

Chapter 12. Document and Records Management
12.1. Policy
The OIST Graduate University (the University) is committed to achieving
efficient business operations and ensuring accountability to its stakeholders and
the general public by managing its documents and records in a systematic and
logical manner. All practices and procedures concerning document and record
management within the University, including their preparation, preservation,
disclosure, and disposal, are to be in accordance with this policy as well as the
related laws and regulations. This policy applies to all documents and records –
whether electronic or on paper and whether in English or Japanese – prepared
and acquired by University officers or employees, and held in the course of their
duties for the purpose of organizational use.
In addition, proper management of personal information is a particularly
important legal obligation in modern society, and it can be publicly damaging
and costly for an organization if it fails in that responsibility. As an institution
dealing with a variety of personal information such as information of students
(including applicants), alumni, employees, donors, event participants and etc.,
the University recognizes its social responsibility to use and protect such personal
information appropriately and to comply with all relevant laws and regulations.
12.2. General Considerations
12.2.1.
Legal Obligations
As a Japanese educational institution established with a special government
law and supported by Japanese tax-payers, the University is subject to the
laws listed below, which require a higher level of transparency and
accountability to the general public than is required of private universities.
The University is committed to meeting its responsibilities under these laws.
 Act on Management of Official Documents, etc. (Act No. 66 of
1
ch12_document-and-records-management_en_20180401_cl

2009) (Document Management Act)
 Act on Access to Information Held by Incorporated Administrative
Agencies (Act No.140 of 2001) (Information Access Act)
 Act on the Protection of Personal Information Held by
Incorporated Administrative Agencies (Act No. 59 of 2003)
(Personal Information Protection Act)
This chapter itself is subject to the legal disclosure requirement and will be
posted on the University’s external website.
12.2.2.
General Principles
All documents and records related to the business operations of the
University, regardless of their contents, must be treated with caution.
12.2.2.1.
In particular, when bringing out the documents and records
from the office for business trips or other reasonable purposes, the
documents should be treated with utmost care and attention. When
an employee uses a portable electronic devise to store documents and
records, he/she should make sure that no copies are left in the devise
after their use or when sharing such device with other individuals.
12.2.2.2.
When leaving a position at the University, employees must
transfer all documents and records that they store to their successor
or immediate supervisor.
12.2.3.
Electronic Documents and Records
The University is committed to introducing electronic systems in order to
conduct business transactions accurately and efficiently. In addition,
promotion of paper-less business operations helps the University meet its
environmental protection objectives. University officials and employees are
expected to prepare and store documents and records electronically whenever
it is possible. In principle, internal announcements and notices should be sent
via e-mails or posted on the internal portal.
Any electronic document and record, regardless of form, is regarded equally
important as paper-based documents under this policy. At the same time, it
will require greater attention to protect from the risks particularly associated
with electronic documents and records, such as falsification, leakage, and
deletion (Refer to 12.3.6.3, 12.3.6.4 of this chapter, and Chapter 17,
Information Technology and Security [link: 12.3.6.3, 12.3.6.4 and 17]) .
12.2.4.
Documents and Records in Laboratories
Scope of this policy is not limited to the administrative groups/sections of the
2
ch12_document-and-records-management_en_20180401_cl

University. While flexibility in education and research activities is advocated
within the University, all faculty and other employees working in support of
the academic and research functions of the University are responsible for
following this policy when they prepare, acquire, and/or preserve any of the
documents subject to this policy, known as Corporate Documents[link:
12.8.2].
Examples of Corporate Documents prepared or managed in laboratories
includes, but is not limited to:
 Purchase requests of research equipment
 Plans and reports about budget execution
 Grant applications
 Records of research evaluations
 Minutes and distributed materials of the Faculty Assembly or
other committees
Research data, lab notebooks, research papers, and other similar documents
and records that are prepared in research activities and which are not
intended for the organizational use of the University are not regarded as
Corporate Documents.
12.3. Rules
The University recognizes the value of documenting institutional decisions – not
only decisions themselves but also the process of making them – and recording of
its business transactions; it also recognizes the importance of preserving these
records traceable and available for current business purpose, for external and
internal reviews and audits, and for future historical research.
12.3.1.
Acquired Corporate Documents
All documents and records – whether electronic or on paper – acquired by
University officers and employees during their course of work through
business communication with external entities are treated as Corporate
Documents. Typical examples include notifications or inquiries from the
central and local authorities, business letters from other institutions, and
proposals from companies.
Information regarding titles, sender, and destination must be appropriately
recorded.
12.3.2.
Prepared Corporate Documents
All institutional decisions and business transactions must be documented
except for those on trivial matters. Corporate Documents must be prepared at
the time of or as soon as practicable after the event to which they relate.

3
ch12_document-and-records-management_en_20180401_cl

12.3.2.1.
Corporate Documents recording institutional decisionmaking are to certify that the decisions have been made by the
individuals with the authority to approve the concerned matters.
(Refer to the Chapter 2, Governance and Organization [link: 2].)
12.3.2.2.
Any such approval should be made in a way in which the
authenticity is assured – affixing his/her own seal, writing his/her
signature, or recording the approval through the related electronic
system – after completing necessary work flows.
The “Guideline for Document-based Approval Process” [link:]
developed and updated by the Chief Operating Officer (COO) will
provide standardized formats and procedures to be used.
12.3.3.
Principles Applied to Preparation of Corporate
Documents
Preparation. The following principles are applied to preparation of any of
Corporate Document:
12.3.3.1.
Must be Accurate. Any Corporate Document prepared by
University officers or employees must provide a correct reflection of
what was done, communicated or decided. They must be simple,
explicit, and using easy-to-understand words and phrases.
12.3.3.2.
Must be Identifiable. Every Corporate Document must be
uniquely identified by a document number, the date of preparation,
and a title appropriately representing its contents and version
information (if the document has been revised or is expected to be
revised) based on the identification standard of Corporate Document
established and maintained by the COO.
12.3.3.3.
Must be Bilingual. Any Corporate Document is to be
prepared both in English and Japanese. While the internal official
and governing language is English, accurate Japanese translation
should be added in side-by-side or other appropriate formats in order
to be accountable for the University’s business operations and its
budget executions to the Japanese funding source, local stakeholders,
and the general public in Japan.
12.3.3.3.1. However, in one of the following circumstances, a Corporate
Document may be prepared in either English or Japanese and at
least with a translated title. (It is still encouraged to make
4
ch12_document-and-records-management_en_20180401_cl

translation of its summary in the other language.)
 The document is routinely prepared.
 The need for preparation of the document is
immediate and urgent.
 It is impractical or significantly inefficient to translate
the document.
12.3.4.

Classification and Preservation

12.3.4.1.

Classification of Corporate Documents

12.3.4.1.1. Any Corporate Document must be annotated with the
document title, the date of preparation or acquisition, the
preservation periods and the preservation period expiration
dates when the documents are prepared or acquired.
12.3.4.1.2. Preservation periods (from “less than one year” to “30
years”) is set based on the criteria [link:] established and
periodically reviewed by the COO.
The preservation period is calculated from the first day (April 1st)
of the following fiscal year (or of the following academic year, if it
is deemed appropriate by the department head) when the
Corporate Documents were prepared, except for when the
preservation period is less than one year, in which case the date
of preparation or acquisition is the starting date of calculation.
If there is any specific statutory requirement regarding
preservation periods and/or the preservation period expiration
dates, such requirement must be met.
12.3.4.2.

Corporate Document Files

12.3.4.2.1. Any Corporate Document must be classified based on its
content and medium (such as electronic, on paper, etc.) as well
as preservation periods, and kept together with closely related
Corporate Documents that have the same preservation periods,
as a collection of Corporate Documents (“Corporate Document
File” or “File.”).
When there is no such related Corporate Documents, the
concerned Corporate Document may constitute an independent
File.

5
ch12_document-and-records-management_en_20180401_cl

12.3.4.2.2.
Any Corporate Document File must be classified
systematically and logically based on its content in accordance
with the “Classification Standard of Corporate Documents”
[link:] developed and periodically reviewed by the COO in
consultation with each department head. Each File is given a
recognizable title, the preservation periods, and the preservation
period expiration dates.
12.3.4.3.

Preservation at Department

12.3.4.3.1. Any Corporate Document File must be stored at the physical
or electronic storage space under the control of the department
head (Document Management Supervisor) responsible for the
File until the preservation period expiration (5 years after the
starting date of calculation, if the preservation periods is longer
than 5 years.).
12.3.4.3.2.
Under supervision of the department heads, the
Document Management Administrator(s) (an employee(s)
assigned by the department head) is responsible for management
of preserved Corporate Documents within the department.
12.3.4.3.3.
The Corporate Document Files must be transferred
from each Section to the University Archive after the certain
period of preservation at the Section. However, if a Section
needs to preserve some Corporate Documents Files under the
control of the Section for more than 5 years provided that the File
contains some Corporate Documents frequently used for daily business,
or for other appropriate reasons, the Section shall request for
permission to the University Archivist (s) (an employee(s)
assigned by the COO).
12.3.4.4.

Preservation at the University Archive

12.3.4.4.1. The Corporate Document Files, which were transferred from
the Department to the University Archive, must be preserved at
the physical or electronic storage space designated to the
University Archive until the preservation period expiration dates.
12.3.4.4.2.
The Corporate Document kept in the Corporate
Document Files preserved by the University Archive is accessible
6
ch12_document-and-records-management_en_20180401_cl

for the department that originally preserved the File before
transfer or any employees permitted by the said department.
12.3.4.4.3.
Under supervision of the COO, the University
Archivist (s) (an employee(s) assigned by the COO) is responsible
for management of preserved Corporate Documents within the
University Archive and administrative matters necessary for the
operations of the University Archive.
12.3.5.

Extension of Preservation Periods, Disposal, and Transfer

12.3.5.1.
At a time reasonably before the preservation period
expiration, the department heads (the University Archivist when the
Corporate Document File is preserved at the University Archive) must
propose the action to take upon the preservation period expiration for
each File among the following three actions:
 Extend the preservation periods,
 Dispose of the Corporate Documents in the Corporate
Document File,
 Transfer the Corporate Documents in the Corporate
Document File to the National Archive.
Any such proposal must be made in accordance with the
guideline[link：] provided by the COO, and must be approved by the
COO (as well as endorsed by the concerned department head when
the proposal is made by the University Archivist.).
12.3.5.1.1. When the preservation periods are extended, the length of
the extended periods must be specified and informed to the
University Archivist (s).
12.3.5.1.2. Any Corporate Document that is relevant to any pending
claim, audit, investigation, or disclosure requests must be
preserved at least until final resolution of the matter. If there are
any concerns or questions, the department in charge of the
document must consult with the University Archivist (s).
12.3.5.2.
Corporate Documents to be disposed after the preservation
period expiration must be disposed by the Document Management
Administrator (the University Archivist when the Corporate
Document is preserved in the University Archive) promptly after the
preservation period expiration. When the said Corporate Documents
7
ch12_document-and-records-management_en_20180401_cl

contain Non-disclosure Information prescribed by the Information
Access Act, those Documents must be shredded or incinerated to
ensure that such information will not leak.
12.3.5.3.
The University Archivist (s) must transfer the Corporate
Documents in the File to be transferred to the National Archive
promptly after the preservation period expiration.
12.3.6.
Confidential Documents
Confidential Documents. Employees may have to prepare or acquire
Corporate Documents that contain information to be protected by
government laws and regulations or the University’s policies. Such Corporate
Documents must be treated with special care in accordance with the following
rules to protect their confidentiality.
12.3.6.1.
Corporate Documents that contain confidential information
and that should have only limited access must be designated as
Confidential Corporate Documents by the department head. Typical
examples of confidential information include, but not limited to:
 Medical records
 Student records
 Personnel and payroll records
 Personal finance information
 Information whose disclosure could damage the competitive
position of the University
 Information identified by government laws and regulation to
be treated as confidential
 Information provided by a third party under a non-disclosure
agreement
In this designation, the criteria for Non-Disclosure Information
prescribed in the Information Access Act [link: 12.3.7.3.3] should be
taken into consideration.
12.3.6.2.
Any Confidential Document must be identified by being
clearly labeled as “Confidential.”
12.3.6.3.
Any Confidential Document must be stored separate from
other documents and records and in a locked drawer or file cabinet or
at other secure places (or electronically locked with passwords). Such
documents should not be left lying on desks, workbenches,
photocopiers, printers, or any other places where other people easily
8
ch12_document-and-records-management_en_20180401_cl

access.
12.3.6.4.
Employees who need to copy (either physically or
electronically) Confidential Documents as part of their duties must
obtain a prior approval from the department head in charge of the
document.
12.3.7.

Disclosure

12.3.7.1.
Corporate Document File Registry
It is a legal requirement to prepare a Corporate Document File Registry as
described in the following paragraphs and to disclose it on the University’s
external website for convenience of internal and external stakeholders.
12.3.7.1.1. The University Archivist, with supervision by the COO and
cooperation from the Document Management Administrators of
each department, must prepare an electronic database of the
Corporate Document Files (“Corporate Document File Registry”
or “Registry.”) The Registry must contain the following
information:
 Classification
 Title
 Preservation periods
 Preservation period expiration date
 Location
 Medium
 The job title of the department head in charge of the
activities during which the Corporate Documents in the
File was prepared or acquired.
 Action to be taken upon the preservation period
expiration
12.3.7.1.2. The Registry must be updated at least once a year by the
University Archivist(s).
12.3.7.1.3. The Registry must be opened to the public on the external
website and at the administrative office on the University
campus, pursuant to the Document Management Act.
12.3.7.2.
Proactive Disclosure
Any university operating in Japan is required to publish the information
9
ch12_document-and-records-management_en_20180401_cl

regarding status of educational and research activities, and results of the
self and external evaluations, in accordance with the School Education Act
(Act No. 26 of 1947).
In addition, the University is responsible for proactively providing the
information regarding its organization and activities on its website and
through other communication tools to meet the disclosure requirements
by the Information Access Act.
12.3.7.2.1. Information to Be Disclosed. The information which must be
disclosed on the University website and at the administrative
office is listed on the Government Ordinance Concerning the
Implementation of The Information Access Act. Such
information includes:
 Objectives of the institution and a description of its
businesses.
 Information of Officers (including information such as
the number, names, titles, term of office, and career
background of Officers)
 The number of employees
 Standards for paying compensation and retirement
allowances to Officers and employees.
 Latest Business Plan and Business Report
 Latest Balance Sheet, Profit and Loss Statement, and
other financial documents
 Rules and procedures regarding contracting
 Latest opinions of Auditors
 Latest reports of a certified public accountant or an
auditing firm
The COO is responsible for ensuring that all of the information
listed in the ordinance is appropriately disclosed. These
documents must be disclosed in Japanese.
12.3.7.2.2.
The University conducts a wide range of activities,
some of which are subject to information disclosure
requirements other than those stated above. In such case, the
information must be disclosed in compliance with the applicable
laws, regulations and government guidelines. The information
must be disclosed by the department in charge of the concerned
activities. The status of such disclosure will be monitored by the
University Archivist (s).

10
ch12_document-and-records-management_en_20180401_cl

12.3.7.3.
Disclosure upon Request
Individuals and other entities, regardless of nationality, may have the right
to access the Corporate Documents in possession of the University under
the conditions prescribed by the Information Access Act. All disclosure
requests must be received and processed in accordance with the applicable
provisions of the Act.
12.3.7.3.1. All disclosure requests must be in writing. Disclosure
Requests will be received and processed by the COO in close
cooperation with General Counsel.
12.3.7.3.2.
The departments related to the documents pertaining
to the Disclosure Requests will be informed about the request by
the University Archivist (s) and must submit the concerned
Corporate Documents that they store to the University Archivist
(s) immediately.
12.3.7.3.3.Any Corporate Document pertaining to the Disclosure
Requests must be disclosed to the Disclosure Requester, unless it
contains the Non-disclosure Information prescribed by the
Article 5th of the Information Access Act [link: ] (Japanese
website).
If the Corporate Document contains information subject to nondisclosure/confidentiality restrictions, applicability of the Partial
Disclosure (Article 6) and the Discretionary Disclosure for Public
Interest (Article 7) prescribed by the Act must be examined.
12.3.7.3.4.
Any decision concerning disposition of a Disclosure
Requests will be proposed by the COO, based on the Review
Standard, with consent from General Counsel. The decisions are
notified to the Disclosure Requester in the applicable written
form.
The Review Standards [link:] for Disclosure Requests will be
developed, pursuant to the Administrative Procedure Act (Act
No. 88 of 1993), by the COO and made available to the public on
the University website.
12.3.7.3.5. The University is required to establish and publish detailed
rules and procedures regarding disclosure methods and fees. The
COO is responsible for developing and maintaining such rules
and procedures in light of practices of similar public institutions
11
ch12_document-and-records-management_en_20180401_cl

in Japan, and place them on the University website.
12.3.8.
Protection of Personal Information
The University’s rules of personal information management, as prescribed by
the following paragraphs, are intended to ensure that personal information
will be appropriately protected.
12.3.8.1.
Scope of This Policy. This policy is applied to personal
information contained by Corporate Documents, defined by 12.8.2
[link: 12.8.2].
12.3.8.2.
General Policy. The University will use and hold personal
information only when it is necessary for carrying out its businesses
and for achieving its missions. Any proposed or intended University
use of personal information must be specifically explained to the
extent possible at the time of retention.
12.3.8.3.

Handling of Personal Information

12.3.8.3.1. Access to personal information. Employees who may have
access to personal information must be designated by the
department heads and shall be limited in number to the
minimum staff necessary. Even designated individuals may
access such information only for stated business purposes.
Unauthorized access to personal information is strictly
prohibited.
12.3.8.3.2.
Copy and Distribution. The following actions related
to personal information require a prior approval by the
department head.
 Copying
 Distribution (electronically and physically)
 Bringing out media containing personal information
 Other actions which could impede the proper
management of personal information
12.3.8.3.3.
Errors. Errors in personal information should be
corrected promptly upon instruction by the department head.
12.3.8.3.4.
Store. Any media containing personal information
must be stored at the location designated by the department

12
ch12_document-and-records-management_en_20180401_cl

head and, when deemed necessary, stored in a locked and
fireproof safe. (Refer to 12.3.6.3 for electronic records [link:
12.3.6.3].)
12.3.8.3.5.
Disposal. When personal information, or media
(including those built in a server or terminal) containing
personal information, is no longer needed, the department head
must instruct the staff (who have been designated by the
department head to be responsible for the said information or
media) to delete relevant information and/or destroy relevant
media in a manner which makes impossible the restoration or
deciphering of the personal information.
12.3.8.3.6.
Recording. The status of use and hold of personal
information within each department must be recorded in writing
in a systematic way by the department head.
12.3.8.4.

Outsourcing

12.3.8.4.1.Business operations in which personal information is
handled must not be outsourced to a party lacking the capacity to
appropriately manage personal information. When outsourcing
such business operations in which personal information is
handled, the departments in charge must take all necessary
measures, such as confirming the management structure, etc., to
avoid selection of inappropriate or incompetent parties to
manage personal information.
Any contracts for outsourcing must be made in accordance with
the guideline [link:] provided by the COO. The Procurement
Section [link: 28] is responsible for ensuring that any contracts
meet the guideline.
12.3.8.4.2.
Any contracts for staff from agencies providing
temporary staff must include explicit provisions regarding
management and handling of personal information, including
confidentiality obligations.
12.3.8.5.
IT System and Server Room Security
Most personal information at the University is prepared and held as
electronic records. The Chief Information Officer (CIO) [link: 17.4.7], in
cooperation with the COO [link: 2.4.4.3], is responsible for ensuring the

13
ch12_document-and-records-management_en_20180401_cl

appropriate protection of personal information in electronic records.
The CIO must take necessary actions [link:] in accordance with the
guideline published by the government. Such actions include the
following:
 Establish internal guidelines for the management of
passwords
 Record access to personal information and store such
records
 Prevent unauthorized external access to personal
information
 Prevent the unauthorized disclosure and destruction of
personal information by infection of IT system by computer
virus
 Access management of the server room
For additional security matters regarding IT, refer to Chapter 17,
Information Technology and Security [link: 17].
12.3.8.6.

Unauthorized Disclosure

12.3.8.6.1.Any person who is aware of unauthorized disclosure of
personal information or other security problems related to
personal information must immediately report to the
department head (and the CIO if the issue is related to IT).
12.3.8.6.2.
Department heads are responsible for taking all
necessary measures to prevent any harm/damage from an
unauthorized disclosure and for making a report on the incident
to the COO.
12.3.8.6.3.
The COO is responsible for making a report to the
President and analyzing the factors resulting in the incident and
take necessary measures to prevent further recurrence in
collaboration with the CIO and other relevant employees.
12.3.8.6.4.
Unauthorized disclosures must be made public if
warranted by an examination of the nature and impact of the
incident, the measures implemented to prevent reoccurrence,
and responses to persons whose personal information was
involved.
12.3.8.7.

Request for Disclosure, Correction and Suspension of Use.
14
ch12_document-and-records-management_en_20180401_cl

The Personal Information Protection Act confers a right of access to
personal information so that individuals can find out what personal
information the University holds about them and check that it is accurate,
up to date, and relevant to a function of the University.
All requests for disclosure, correction, and suspension of use are received
and processed in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Act.
12.3.8.7.1. The COO is responsible for handling any requests regarding
personal information in close cooperation with General Counsel.
The requests are handled based on the same procedure specified
for the information disclosure requests[link: 12.3.7.3].
The Review Standard for Personal Information Disclosure [link:]
The Detailed Rules and Procedures regarding Personal
Information Disclosure Methods and Fees [link:]
12.3.8.8.
Handling of Specific Personal Information
Handlings of Specific Personal Information are stipulated in “OIST
Regulations on Handling Individual Numbers and Specific Personal
Information.”
12.3.8.9 It is designated by The Personal Information Protection Act that
the University may prepare and provide the Incorporated Administrative
Agencies’ De-identified Information. The Vice President for
Administrative Compliance regulate separately how to handle the “"Deidentified Information” by the” Regulations for handling of De-identified
Information[link:].”
12.3.9.
Training
The University Archivist (s), with cooperation from the Training and
Education Section must provide training to University employees as necessary
to ensure they obtain (or improve) the knowledge and skills required for
conducting proper and effective document management, including protection
of personal information, in conformance with this policy.
12.3.10. Internal Auditing
The Auditing Manager appointed by the COO will conduct periodic
inspections and audits of the status of implementation of this policy and make
necessary reports to the COO. The COO will take necessary actions to
maintain and improve a robust system for protection of information as
required by this policy.
15
ch12_document-and-records-management_en_20180401_cl

12.3.11. Transition from OIST Promotion Corporation
All Corporate Documents held by the OIST Promotion Corporation at the time
of transition to the OIST School Corporation (OIST SC) must be transferred to
the OIST SC and managed in accordance with this policy.
12.4. Responsibilities
12.4.1.
Officers and Employees
All University officers and employees must recognize the importance of
appropriate document and record management, including information
disclosure and protection of personal information. They are responsible for
managing Corporate Documents, including those with personal information,
appropriately by following the instructions from their immediate supervisors
and department heads and complying with the related laws and regulations as
well as this policy.
12.4.2.
COO
The COO is responsible for general administration of this policy within the
University (Executive Supervisor of Document Management), including:
General
 Maintaining this policy and developing necessary guidelines to
implement this policy,
 Appointing an Auditing Manager from among the employees in
the COO and having the Auditing Manager inspect and audit the
status of management of Corporate Documents and personal
information within the University,
 Providing necessary supervision, training and guidance to
University employees, and
 Making necessary written reports to the Prime Minister or other
relevant ministers, pursuant to the related laws and regulations.
Document Management
 Preparing and updating the Corporate Document File Registry,
 Operating the University Archive, and
 Taking necessary actions to transfer Corporate Documents to the
National Archive.
Information Disclosure
 Receiving and processing of requests for information disclosure,
and making decisions whether or not to accept those requests,
and communicating with Disclosure Requesters.
 Establishing and publishing the review standards for the requests
16
ch12_document-and-records-management_en_20180401_cl

and the detailed rules and procedures regarding disclosure
methods and fees.
Protection of Personal Information
 Facilitating the internal communication and coordination
necessary to implement this policy and to determine important
matters related to the protection of personal information. This
includes organizing and chairing a committee consisting of the
following members as necessary:
- Chief Information Officer
- General Counsel
- Dean of the Graduate School
- Vice President for Gender Equality and Human Resource
Development
- Any other employees related to the matter to discuss
 Receiving and processing of requests for disclosure, correction
and suspension of use of personal information, and
communicating with Disclosure Requesters.
 Establishing and publishing the review standards for the requests
of personal information and the detailed rules and procedures
regarding disclosure methods and fees.
12.4.3.
Department Heads
Each department head is responsible for implementation of this policy within
the department in charge, including but not limited to the following:
Document Management
 Preparing and updating the Files for Corporate Documents
prepared or acquired within the department,
 Taking necessary actions to transferring Corporate Documents to
the University Archive or to dispose Corporate Document after
the departmental preservation period expiration dates,
 Appointing a Document Management Administrator(s) and
having the Administrator(s) carry out necessary tasks to follow
this policy, and
 Review annually the status of document and record management
within the department and report the results to the COO.
Information Disclosure
 Submit the Corporate Documents pertaining to the Disclosure
Requests which are preserved in the department to the COO and
provide necessary cooperation to handle Disclosure Requests.
Protection of Personal Information
 Designate staff members to handle personal information within
17
ch12_document-and-records-management_en_20180401_cl

the department,
 Provide necessary guidance and supervision regarding the
protection of personal information within the department, and
 Submit the Corporate Documents containing personal
information subject to a Disclosure Requests, correction or
suspension of use, which are preserved in the department to the
COO and provide necessary cooperation to handle the requests.
If a department head delegates the duties and authority to his/her staff, the
department head must inform the COO of such delegation.
12.4.4.
Document Management Administrator
Document Management Administrator is responsible for managing the
Corporate Documents stored in the departments under the supervision of the
department head.
12.4.5.
University Archivist
University Archivist is responsible for managing the Corporate Documents
preserved in the University Archive and preparing the Corporate Document
File Registry under the supervision of the COO.
12.4.6.
Chief Information Officer
Chief Information Officer is responsible for take necessary actions, in
cooperation with the COO, to ensure that electronic records containing
personal information is appropriately managed and protected.
12.5. Procedures
12.5.1.

How to classify Corporate Documents ［link:］

12.5.2.
How to access the Corporate Documents preserved at the
University Archive
12.6. Forms
12.6.1.

Corporate Document Disclosure Request Form [link:]

12.6.2.

Personal Information Disclosure Request Form [link:]

12.6.3.

Personal Information Correction Request Form [link:]

12.6.4.

Personal Information Suspension Request Form [link:]
18
ch12_document-and-records-management_en_20180401_cl

12.7. Contacts
12.7.1.
COO

Policy Owner

12.7.2.
Other Contacts
University Archivist (Manager, Rules and Procedures Section)
Chief Information Officer
12.8. Definitions
12.8.1.
Personal Information
Personal information is information about a living individual, which can
identify the specific individual by name, date of birth or other description
contained in such information (including information that can be compared
with other information and thereby identify the specific individual).
12.8.2.
Corporate Document
Corporate Document is a document and record, including any graphics and
electromagnetic record (referring to any record created in electronic,
magnetic, or any other form that cannot be read without electronic assistance)
that is prepared or acquired by University officers or employees and held by
the University for organizational use.
Research data, lab notebooks, research papers, and other similar documents
and records that are prepared in research activities and which are not
intended for the organizational use of the University are not regarded as
Corporate Documents.
The definition of Corporate Documents also excludes any official gazettes,
white papers, newspapers, magazines, publications, or other materials that
are published, and/or are sold, to a large numbers of unspecified persons.
12.8.3.
Department
Departments are the basic business unit under the implementation of this
policy.
12.8.4.
National Archive
National Archive is an archive established by the Independent Administrative
Institution National Archives of Japan.
19
ch12_document-and-records-management_en_20180401_cl

12.8.5.
Officers
Officers are: the Chief Executive Officer, Vice Executive Officer, Members of
the Board of Governors, and Auditors.
12.8.6.
Review Standards
The review standards are standards provide criteria for judgments on whether
requests or applications are to be accepted or not, based on the provisions of
related laws and regulations.

20
ch12_document-and-records-management_en_20180401_cl

OIST Graduate University
Policies, Rules & Procedures
Authority: Approved by the President and the Dean of Research


Industrial Safety and Health Act



Offensive Odor Control Law



Act on the Evaluation of Chemical Substances and Regulation of Their
Manufacture, etc.



Explosives Control Act



High Pressure Gas Safety Act



Ordinance on Safety and Health of Work under High Pressure



Fire Service Act



Water Pollution Prevention Act



Air Pollution Control Act



Act on Confirmation, etc. of Release Amounts of Specific Chemical Substances in
the Environment and Promotion of Improvements to the Management Thereof



Poisonous and Deleterious Substances Control Act



Agricultural Chemicals Control Act



Narcotics and Psychotropics Control Act



Waste Disposal and Public Cleansing Act



Act on the Conservation and Sustainable Use of Biological Diversity through
Rules on the Use of Living Modified Organisms



Act on Domestic Animal Infectious Diseases Control



Act Concerning the Prevention of Infectious Diseases and Medical Care for
Patients with Infectious Diseases



Rabies Prevention Act



Plant Protection Act



Act on the Protection of Fishery Resources



Invasive Species Act



Act on Welfare and Management of Animals



Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Control Law
ch13_safety-health-and-environmental-protection_en_20180222_ar



Act on the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons and the Regulation of Specific
Chemicals



Act on Prevention of Radiation Disease Due to Radioisotopes, etc.



Act on the Regulation of Nuclear Source Material, Nuclear Fuel Material and
Reactors

Chapter 13. Safety, Health & Environmental Protection
13.1 Policy
Through an array of orientation programs including safety matters, research- and jobspecific safety and education and training courses, and health and wellness programs,
OIST Graduate University (“the University”) promotes the safety and health of its
students, employees, and others within the University Community. The University also
strives to carry out the activities that comprise and support its education and research
mission in a manner that will preserve and protect the distinctive natural environment in
which the campus is located. This includes conscientious recycling and appropriate
handling and disposal of hazardous waste and other waste materials, as well as
utilization of energy efficient practices and modalities. Additionally, because Okinawa
is located in a unique geological region subject to earthquakes, tsunamis, typhoons, and
other natural disasters (and associated fires), the University has in place rigorous
Disaster and Emergency Preparedness protocols and training for students and
employees.
It is University policy to meet or exceed all legal and regulatory requirements
regarding Safety, Health & Environmental Protection (“SHEP”) and may impose
additional requirements as appropriate. Each member of the University community is
expected to comply with the University’s policies, rules, and procedures regarding
safety (including disaster preparedness), health, and environmental protection in
addition to complying with all relevant Japanese legal requirements. The dedication
and active commitment of every individual regarding SHEP is critical to the success
of the University’s safety, health, environmental protection, and disaster preparedness
programs.
13.1.1 General Safety Policy
General workplace safety training is important for everyone at the University,
even those who believe that they have a non-hazardous desk job. Safety
training is one of the most basic and important functions of the University.
Safety training provides insight into potential hazards in the workplace, how to
ch13_safety-health-and-environmental-protection_en_20180222_ar

spot them, and what to do once a hazard is recognized. Several forms of
training are available, such as group instruction, WEB-based training, or oneon-one sessions. The University requires that all those who operate in the
University take safety training programs, including the Basics of Health and
Safety program which extensively covers workplace safety matters [link:
13.3.1], and renew program certifications as necessary.
13.1.1.1 Job-Specific Safety Policy. Numerous hazards are jobspecific. Operation of machine tools, electrical work, construction,
plumbing, and just about any effort involving machinery will expose
those doing that work to dangers. Work involving these dangers is
subject to stringent occupational safety regulation and training, and
those who are engaged in those occupations (or those otherwise
carrying-out such activities) at the University must take the relevant
safety training [link: 13.3.2].
13.1.1.2 Research Safety Policy. Different experiments pose different
potential risks. Individuals involved in conducting experiments must
familiarize themselves with all potential risks before starting the
experiment so that they can anticipate possible incidents, ensure to
follow safe experimental procedures and take safety measures to
prevent incidents. Additionally, Faculty members and Lead
Investigators must instruct research personnel about appropriate safety
measures, and research personnel must follow their instructions and
advice. If an accident occurs, OIST personnel must implement
appropriate first-aid responses, giving priority to rescuing activities
and attending to injured people, and to preventing the spread of
damage.
13.1.2

Health & Wellness Policy

The University offers training, programs and medical services to promote the
physical and mental health and well being of employees and students and to
support a healthy and productive work environment. Employees and
students are expected to engage in the University’s Health & Wellness
programs, to be conscious of their health, to undergo periodic general and
specific medical examinations[link: 41.3.1], to pay attention to diet and
nutrition, to exercise daily, to get enough sleep each night, and to take time
for relaxation and recreation.

ch13_safety-health-and-environmental-protection_en_20180222_ar

13.1.3 Environmental Protection Policy
The University is committed to the continuous development of technologies
related to renewable energy, to research in the environmental and
associated sciences, and to minimization of energy consumption in its
activities. All employees and students are expected to behave in
conformance with the University’s policy of reducing environmental
impact, reducing waste, managing and handling of hazardous waste, and
maximizing energy efficiency.
13.1.4 Disaster Preparedness & Emergency Response Policy
In order to minimize the adverse impact of the unpredictable natural and
other disasters that may strike, the University has developed and deployed
preparedness and emergency response plans. It has also established
evacuation areas, evacuation routes, and emergency contacts. University
employees and students are expected to familiarize themselves with these
preparations, plans and precautions. All members of the University
community are expected to also have personal plans for dealing with
disasters and emergencies away from the University. For details, see “OIST
Graduate University Emergency, Safety and Health Procedures and
Guidelines” [link:
https://groups.oist.jp/sites/default/files/imce/u745/ESH_procedur
es_and_guidelines_e_Lab1.pdf].
13.2 General Considerations
13.2.1
Industrial Safety & Health Act and Other Significant Laws
With regard to occupational safety and health, the University’s activities are
subject to Japan’s Industrial Safety and Health Act [link:
http://www.japaneselawtranslation.go.jp/law/detail/?id=1926&vm=
&re ]. In addition, the University has its own Safety and Health
Management Rules [link:
https://groups.oist.jp/sites/default/files/imce/u318/docs/safetyand-health-management-rules.pdf] and a University Safety and Health
Committee [link:
https://groups.oist.jp/sites/default/files/imce/u300/Rules%20for%20Safety%
20and%20Health%20Committee_dor_0.pdf]. Also, additional laws
applicable to the University’s various research and academic activities are
set out where relevant elsewhere in this Chapter.
13.2.2

Export and Import Compliance
ch13_safety-health-and-environmental-protection_en_20180222_ar

Japan, like most nations, imposes controls, requirements, and duties on the
export and import of virtually all goods, including materials and equipment
used in basic research of the type conducted at the University. Of grave
concern are items, devices, substances, information, and specimens that
could be diverted to a military use. Intellectual property such as software,
production know-how, and even use manuals are also regulated and
controlled by Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Control Law (Foreign
Exchange Law). Generally, licenses are required for the export of controlled
goods. The government also controls, and may require licenses for, the
importing of a variety of items, devices, substances, information, and
specimens, including living organisms. Genetically modified organisms are
a particular concern in Japan. Goods approved for importation may also be
subject to fees/taxes (sometimes referred to as “duties”), although items
used in university-based research may be eligible for an exemption from
duties. Great care must be exercised and advice from the person in charge at
the Occupational Health and Safety Section sought to assure export/import
control compliance; for pertinent details, refer to:
• The OIST Rules for Security Export Control [link:
https://groups.oist.jp/sites/default/files/imce/u318/docs/rules-forsecurity-export-control.pdf]
• The University’s Security Trade Control WEB site [link:
https://groups.oist.jp/rs/security-export-control ]
• Security Export Control WEB site (METI) [link:
http://www.meti.go.jp/policy/anpo/englishpage.html ]
• Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Control Law (Foreign Exchange
Law) [link:
http://www.japaneselawtranslation.go.jp/law/detail/?id=21&vm=04&re
=01 ]
13.2.3
Transporting Biological Agents, Chemical Materials,
and Other Regulated Material
Transportation of many research materials, devices, and substances is
subject to strict regulations, under the provisions of the Postal Act, Terms
and Conditions of Domestic Postal Services, Universal Postal Convention,
and IATA Dangerous Goods Rules, among others. Additionally, containers
and packaging for transport within Japan and overseas must comply with
specific requirements.
Relevant laws affecting import/export of biological agents and chemical
materials include:

ch13_safety-health-and-environmental-protection_en_20180222_ar

•

•

•

•

•

•
•

•

Act on the Conservation and Sustainable Use of Biological Diversity
through Rules on the Use of Living Modified Organisms (Cartagena
Act) [link:
http://www.japaneselawtranslation.go.jp/law/detail/?ft=1&re=01&dn
=1&x=78&y=10&co=01&ia=03&ky=%E3%82%AB%E3%83%AB
%E3%82%BF%E3%83%98%E3%83%8A%E8%AD%B0%E5%AE
%9A%E6%9B%B8&page=1 ]
Act on Domestic Animal Infectious Diseases Control [link:
http://www.japaneselawtranslation.go.jp/law/detail/?re=01&dn=1&x=
0&y=0&co=1&ia=03&yo=&gn=&sy=&ht=&no=&bu=&ta=&ky=%
E5%AE%B6%E7%95%9C%E4%BC%9D%E6%9F%93&page=1 ]
Rabies Prevention Act [link: http://elaws.egov.go.jp/search/elawsSearch/elaws_search/lsg0500/detail?lawId=32
5AC1000000247&openerCode=1 ]
Act Concerning the Prevention of Infectious Diseases and Medical
Care for Patients with Infectious Diseases [link:
https://groups.oist.jp/sites/default/files/imce/u745/Act%20on%20Prev
ention%20of%20Infectious%20Diseases.pdf]
Plant Protection Act [link:
http://www.japaneselawtranslation.go.jp/law/detail/?re=01&dn=1&x=
0&y=0&co=1&ia=03&yo=&gn=&sy=&ht=&no=&bu=&ta=&ky=%
E6%A4%8D%E7%89%A9%E9%98%B2%E7%96%AB%E6%B3%9
5&page=3]
Invasive Alien Species Act [link:
https://www.env.go.jp/en/nature/as/040427.pdf]
Act on the Protection of Fishery Resources [link:
http://www.japaneselawtranslation.go.jp/law/detail/?re=01&dn=1&x=
0&y=0&co=1&ia=03&yo=&gn=&sy=&ht=&no=&bu=&ta=&ky=%
E6%B0%B4%E7%94%A3%E8%B3%87%E6%BA%90%E4%BF%9
D%E8%AD%B7%E6%B3%95&page=7]
Import and export of chemical materials is regulated by the Act on the
Evaluation of Chemical Substances and Regulation of Their
Manufacture, etc. (Chemicals Evaluation Act) [link:
http://www.japaneselawtranslation.go.j
p/law/detail/?id=1957&vm=04&re=02 ]

13.2.4 Safety-Related Signage
”Safety Signs” warning of hazards and the need for caution are posted at
various locations around the campus. Some are temporary warnings, such as
used during construction or roadwork. Those placed on laboratory doors are
ch13_safety-health-and-environmental-protection_en_20180222_ar

generally permanent and must be taken seriously. Employees, students, and
visitors are expected to notice, read, and obey all safety signs. Safety signs
are fabricated and maintained in accordance with University Safety Signs
Guidance [link:
https://groups.oist.jp/sites/default/files/imce/u745/OSH/Safety-SignGuidelines.pdf].
13.2.5 Incident and Accident Response & Reporting
Everyone in the University has a responsibility to respond to and report health
or safety incidents and accidents in accordance with the “OIST Graduate
University Emergency, Safety, Health Procedures & Guidelines” [link:
https://groups.oist.jp/sites/default/files/imce/u745/ESH_procedures_and_gu
idelines_e_Lab1.pdf] and other relevant rules. Refer to the procedures in
13.5 [link: 13.5] for specific response and reporting procedures. Also, see,
the Occupational Health and Safety WEB site [link: https://groups.oist.jp/rs
] for further information.
13.2.5.1 HIYARI-HATTO Report/Minor Accident Report
The University promotes the HIYARI-HATTO project to reinforce its
efforts to prevent on campus accidents or injuries. "HIYARI-HATTO"
means near misses. The project aims at raising awareness towards potential
dangers that might be present in research and other daily activities, to
prevent actual accidents from taking place. Any person who has witnessed
or experienced a HIYARI-HATTO incident or minor accident case is
encouraged to report it to the University using the web-form [link:
https://groups.oist.jp/hiyari-hatto-project-report-form]. The purpose of
receiving such reports is to understand potential dangers associated with the
cases to prevent accidents or workplace injuries, not blaming concerned
people or reporters. The University will share information in the reports
with people at OIST through the University's internal webpage
[https://groups.oist.jp/rs/hiyari-hatto-project], after excluding information
that could be used to identify particular individuals or Unit/Sections.

13.3 Rules
13.3.1 Training
Training on health and research as well as environmental protection is provided in
classroom-based, online and hands-on forms. At the University, all persons who
operate in the University, regardless of their affiliation or how long they have been
or will be operating at the University, must select and take any trainings that are
required for the type of activity they plan to engage in, before engaging in it or
ch13_safety-health-and-environmental-protection_en_20180222_ar

before submitting the required application. Certification of trainings is generally
valid for five years; however, certification of some trainings expires earlier. In
addition, all persons are required to take the Basics of Health and Safety and the
Update Session on Research Safety and Ethics every year to renew certification of
these trainings. Renewal of certification of required trainings must be completed
before expiry. In addition to taking the required trainings, supervisors such as
faculty members and section leaders must also inform faculty and staff members
working under them and any visiting researchers and students they are hosting
about all required trainings, and confirm that they have completed these trainings.
For details, see Appendix [link:xxx].
13.3.1.1 Basics of Health and Safety
The Basics of Health and Safety is a comprehensive training on health
and safety and environmental protection, which is also one of the
important initial trainings that all new personnel at OIST must receive.
Its training material puts together all the basic health and safety matters
that those operating at OIST ought to know. It enables trainees to
develop an overall understanding of emergency procedures, applicable
legal and regulatory requirements as well as University rules. All
University students and employees, including clerical workers (and
contract workers) not directly engaged in research or experiments, must
receive this training. The material is updated as necessary, to include
revision of laws and regulatory provisions as well as University rules.
Certification of this training is valid only for one year, and thus all
persons are required to complete annual renewal by receiving the
training again before expiry.
13.3.1.2 Update Session on Research Safety and Ethics
The University provides an update session on the Industrial Safety and
Health Act and other updates on laws, regulations, guidelines and the
University rules concerning health and safety including research safety
and ethics, as well as other substantial information in terms of health and
safety, approximately once a year. This session is essential means for
building common understanding of revisions to laws and regulations as
well as the latest developments of matters relating to safety and health.
Wet lab members and staff members of Research Support Division must
take the annual update session.
13.3.1.3 Responsible Conduct of Research
The Guidelines for Responding to Misconduct in Research (Decision by
the Minister of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology,
ch13_safety-health-and-environmental-protection_en_20180222_ar

August 26, 2014) require research institutions such as universities to
provide research ethics education to a wide range of persons who are
involved in their research activities. All persons who are involved in
research activities or operations for supporting research at the University
must take the Responsible Conduct of Research program. Administrative
employees who are not directly involved in research activities are also
strongly recommended to take this program. [link: 4.8.2] Additionally,
taking research ethics materials provided by an institution other than
OIST is also encouraged. Of note, those who have acquired an external
research grant may be required to take an additional research ethics
material by the funding agency. Certification of this program is valid for
five years.
13.3.1.4 Required Trainings for Personnel who Operate in the
University
To perform certain types of work, personnel must take certain trainings
which are required by laws, regulations and guidelines, or are
necessitated to operate safely. Those who are engaged in an activity at
the University must complete all required trainings before the
commencement of the activity or application procedures relating to it.
Information on required trainings for specific works can be obtained
from the relevant laws and regulatory provisions as well as the
University's Health and Safety website. [link:
https://groups.oist.jp/rs/industrial-safety-and-health] Persons who operate
at the University are recommended to additionally take a broad range of
programs even if they are not mandatory. In addition, if training
programs consist of multiple modules, including those of mandatory and
non-mandatory, likewise, trainees should willingly take non-mandatory
modules as well.
Persons who are engaged in waste collection or cleaning as well as
outside contractors who have access to laboratory areas must complete
the Advanced Safety Program on Health and Safety in advance of the
commencement of the work and, subsequently, at least once in five years.

13.3.2 Hazardous Work and Handling of Harmful Agents
The following general rules must always be observed when performing
hazardous work or handling harmful agents:
(1) When handling an apparatus or equipment that involves high
temperatures, high pressure, high voltage or high speed or that is
heavy weight, use appropriate protective measures and equipment and
ch13_safety-health-and-environmental-protection_en_20180222_ar

(2)

(3)

(4)

(5)

work attentively.
Before using an apparatus or equipment that is new to the operator, the
operator must carefully read operation manuals, do any other
appropriate preparation work and ask for guidance from a person who
has experience in using the apparatus or equipment.
Before operating an apparatus, device, or equipment that requires a
particular skill, the potential user must be familiar with basic
operations of the apparatus or equipment.
After use, the apparatus, device, or equipment - and the surrounding
areas - must be cleaned up; if any defect is found, it must be promptly
repaired (or the next user notified of the problem).
The following personal protective equipment must be provided and
used as necessary:
• Protective equipment for eyes and face (such as glasses with face
shield)
• Protective equipment for body, hands and feet (such as
protective clothes, gloves and safety shoes)
• Protective equipment for respiration (such as dust respirator, gas
mask and air respirator)

(6) Maintain personal protective equipment so as to be used in the best
condition anytime and clearly indicate the place where they are stored.
(7) Be familiar with how to wear personal protective equipment so that
they can be worn quickly and appropriately when necessary.
(8) After use, personal protective equipment must be sterilized
appropriately and stored in an appropriate place.
(9) Employees who are engaged in work with limitations on working
conditions or work specified as dangerous or harmful work under
the Industrial Safety and Health Act or any other relevant laws
must have license or have completed skill trainings or special
trainings required by the Act or such laws.
13.3.3 Machinery, Equipment, Instruments & Devices
In performing their duties for the University, workers may make use of a variety
of machines, equipment, devices, tools and instruments, large and small, simple
and complex, from hammers and welding torches to cranes and lasers
(collectively referred to as “equipment”). All workers must read the related
manuals thoroughly to understand and know the measures how to avoid or
mitigate hazards.

ch13_safety-health-and-environmental-protection_en_20180222_ar

13.3.3.1 Equipment that Require License or Notification
The Industrial Safety and Health Act or any other relevant laws may
require a potential user of certain equipment to obtain license or
submit a notification for the use in advance; for details, see “OIST
Safety and Health Management Rules [link:
https://groups.oist.jp/sites/default/files/imce/u318/docs/safety-andhealth-management-rules.pdf] ” and the University's pertinent website
[link: https://groups.oist.jp/rs/regulated-equipment]. However, for any
license or notification procedures which involve the Fire Prevention
Ordinance of the Okinawa Prefecture, the Facility Management
Section will act as the contact office for communication between the
University and the Okinawa Prefecture.
13.3.3.2 Unattended Operation of Equipment
Although refrigerators, freezers and incubators operating in an
intermediate temperature range may be left unattended exceptionally,
the general rule is that no equipment may be left unattended while
operating (including overnight operation). However, in the case of
low risk machines that are provided with safety devices, unattended
operation may be conducted if all pertinent ancillary safety
precautions are in effect. When performing unattended operation, the
following notices must be posted:
 On the equipment, indicate that unattended operation or
overnight operation is scheduled;
 On the equipment, post a description of the current
operation and provide emergency response and contact
person information.

13.3.3.3 Equipment Requiring Periodic Inspection
The Industrial Safety and Health Act or any other relevant laws may
require periodic inspection on certain equipment and installations; for
details, see “OIST Safety and Health Management Rules [link:
https://groups.oist.jp/sites/default/files/imce/u318/docs/safety-andhealth-management-rules.pdf] ” and the University's pertinent website
[link: https://groups.oist.jp/ja/rs/regular-checking-equipment].
13.3.3.4 Use of Laser
Refer to “Laser Safety Management Rules [link:
https://groups.oist.jp/sites/default/files/imce/u318/docs/Laser_Safety_
ch13_safety-health-and-environmental-protection_en_20180222_ar

Management_Rules.pdf ]” and “Laser Safety Standards [link:
https://groups.oist.jp/sites/default/files/imce/u745/Laser_Safety_Standa
rds.pdf]” for use of laser.
13.3.3.5 Use of X-ray Instruments
The necessary requirements to ensure the safe and appropriate use of
X-ray instruments are stipulated in “X-ray Instruments Management
Rules” [link: https://groups.oist.jp/sites/default/files/imce/u318/docs/Xray-Instrument-Management-Rules.pdf]. The University's X-ray
instrument website is [link: https://groups.oist.jp/x-ray-instrument].
13.3.3.6 Mechanical Workshop
In order to obtain permission to enter the Mechanical Workshop and to
use the equipment, a user must apply to the Mechanical Engineering &
Microfabrication Support Section and successfully complete the
training concerning safe use of the equipment beforehand. When using
the equipment, a user must pay attention to safe operation, following
the rules set by the Mechanical Engineering & Microfabrication
Support Section.

13.3.4 Rules for Working with Electrical Hazards
Electricity, especially high-voltage electricity, can be extremely dangerous to
work with or around. It poses a serious risk to human life, as well as to property,
if not properly, appropriately, and carefully managed and handled. All persons
working with electricity must make efforts to prevent electrical accidents or
injuries and conduct the electrical work under the supervision of the Electrical
Chief Engineer whenever such work is needed. When conducting electrical
work on campus, the procedures for electrical work [link: Procedures for
Electrical Work ] must be observed.
13.3.5 High Pressure and Liquefied Gas
In the case of handling high pressure or liquefied gas, the person must comply
with the requirements of the “High Pressure Gas Safety Act” [link:
http://www.japaneselawtranslation.go.jp/law/detail/?ft=1&re=01&dn=1&x=65
&y=25&co=01&ia=03&ky=%E9%AB%98%E5%9C%A7%E3%82%AC%E3%
82%B9%E4%BF%9D%E5%AE%89%E6%B3%95&page=6], which regulates
the use of compressed gases and stipulates in detail how to use these gases.
Liquefied gases that can become 0.2 MPa are also regulated as high pressure
gases such as petroleum gas, compressed acetylene gas, liquefied hydrogen
cyanide, liquefied ethylene oxide and liquefied bromomethyl. Those using such
ch13_safety-health-and-environmental-protection_en_20180222_ar

regulated high pressure/liquefied gas must undergo training concerning high
pressure gas and must use the high pressure gases in safe manner, undertaking
all necessary safety measures in compliance with the High Pressure Gas Safety
Law.

13.3.6 Experiment/Research required Institutional Review
If an experiment involves recombinant DNA [link: 13.3.7], pathogens and toxins
[link: 13.3.8], laboratory animals [link: 13.3.9], radiation [link: 13.3.10], human
subjects research [link: 13.3.11], field work [link: 13.3.13], or laser [link:
13.3.3.4 ], the experimenter must submit an application to the pertinent secretariat
(Section in charge) for review by the pertinent Institutional Review Committee
before commencing the experiment and obtain approval from the Dean of
Research.
The Institutional Review Committees established in the University are:
• Biosafety Committee
•

Animal Experiment Committee

•

Radiation Safety Committee

•

Human Subjects Research Committee

•

Field Work Safety Committee

•

Laser Safety Advisory Committee

13.3.7 Recombinant DNA Experiments
Operation of Recombinant DNA Experiments must comply with the following
Rules and Acts, and other legal and regulatory provisions. In addition,
completion of appropriate training programs and necessary procedures is also
required before commencing any experiments in this category. When procuring
or acquiring living modified organisms (LMOs) from or providing LMOs to
other institutions, necessary procedures must be completed beforehand, in
compliance with all legal and regulatory provisions concerning import/export as
well as the rules of a carrier of international shipment.
• OIST Graduate University Recombinant DNA Experiment Rules [link:
https://groups.oist.jp/sites/default/files/imce/u745/Biosafety/RecombinantDNA-Experiment-Rules.pdf]
•

OIST Graduate University Biosafety Management Rules [link:
https://groups.oist.jp/sites/default/files/imce/u745/Biosafety/BiosafetyRules.pdf]
ch13_safety-health-and-environmental-protection_en_20180222_ar

•

OIST Graduate University Biosafety Committee Rules [link:
https://groups.oist.jp/sites/default/files/imce/u745/Biosafety/BiosafetyCommittee-Rules.pdf]

•

OIST Biosafety Manual [link:
https://groups.oist.jp/sites/default/files/imce/u697/docs/biosafetymanual_v
er100_en.pdf]

•

Act on the Conservation and Sustainable Use of Biological Diversity
through Rules on the Use of Living Modified Organisms
[link:http://www.japaneselawtranslation.go.jp/law/detail/?re=01&dn
=1&x=0&y=0&co=1&ia=03&yo=&gn=&sy=&ht=&no=&bu=&ta=
&ky=%E9%81%BA%E4%BC%9D%E5%AD%90%E7%B5%84%
E6%8F%9B%E3%81%88%E7%94%9F%E7%89%A9%E7%AD%8
9%E3%81%AE%E4%BD%BF%E7%94%A8%E7%AD%89%E3%
81%AE%E8%A6%8F%E5%88%B6&page=1]
Recombinant DNA WEB site (Occupational Health and Safety) [link:
https://groups.oist.jp/rs/recombinant-dna]

•
•

Japan Biosafety Clearing-House (J-BCH) [link:
http://www.biodic.go.jp/bch/english/e_index.html]

13.3.8 Experiments Handling Pathogens and Toxins
Operation of Experiments handling Pathogens and Toxins must comply with the
following Rules and Acts, and other legal and regulatory provisions. In addition,
completion of appropriate training programs and necessary procedures is also
required before commencing any experiments in this category. When procuring
or acquiring pathogens and toxins from or providing them to other institutions,
necessary procedures must be completed beforehand, in compliance with all
legal and regulatory provisions concerning import/export as well as the rules of
a carrier of international shipment. Of note, a wide variety of biological agents
are subject to the biosafety committee review at OIST.
•

OIST Graduate University Biosafety Management Rules [link:
https://groups.oist.jp/sites/default/files/imce/u745/Biosafety/BiosafetyRules.pdf]

•

OIST Graduate University Biosafety Committee Rules [link:
https://groups.oist.jp/sites/default/files/imce/u745/Biosafety/BiosafetyCommittee-Rules.pdf]

•

OIST Biosafety Manual [link:
https://groups.oist.jp/sites/default/files/imce/u318/docs/biosafetymanual_v
er100_j.pdf]

•

National Institute of Infectious Diseases Safety Management Regulations
ch13_safety-health-and-environmental-protection_en_20180222_ar

•

•

for Pathogens and Toxins [link:
http://www0.nih.go.jp/niid/Biosafety/kanrikitei3/Kanrikitei3_1006.pdf]
Act Concerning the Prevention of Infectious diseases and Medical Care
for Patients with Infectious Diseases [link:
http://www.japaneselawtranslation.go.jp/law/detail/?id=2830&vm=04&re
=02]
Pathogens and Toxins WEB site (Occupational Health and Safety) [link:
https://groups.oist.jp/rs/pathogens-and-toxins]

13.3.9 Animal Experiments
o Operation of Animal Experiments must comply with the following Rules
and Acts, and other legal and regulatory provisions. In addition,
completion of appropriate training programs and necessary procedures is
also required before commencing any experiments in this category.
When procuring or acquiring laboratory animals from or providing them
to other institutions, necessary procedures must be completed
beforehand, in compliance with all legal and regulatory provisions
concerning import/export as well as the rules of a carrier of international
shipment.
•

OIST Graduate University Animal Experiment Regulations [link:
https://groups.oist.jp/sites/default/files/imce/u1465/Animal%20Experimen
t%20Regulations.pdf]

•

OIST Graduate University Detailed Stipulations for Animal Care and use
Committee [link:
https://groups.oist.jp/sites/default/files/imce/u1465/Detailed%20Stipulati
ons%20for%20Animal%20Care%20and%20Use%20Commi.pdf]
OIST Graduate University Detailed Stipulations for the Vivarium
Operation Committee [link:
https://groups.oist.jp/sites/default/files/imce/u1465/Detailed%20
Stipulations%20for%20the%20Vivarium%20Operation%20Com
mittee.pdf]
SOP [link: https://groups.oist.jp/ja/ars/laws-regulations-and-sop]

•

•
•

•

Act on Welfare and Management of Animals [link:
http://www.japaneselawtranslation.go.jp/law/detail/?id=61
&vm=04&re=01 ]
Standards Relating to the Care and Management of Laboratory Animals
and Relief of Pain (MOE) [link:
https://www.env.go.jp/nature/dobutsu/aigo/2_data/laws/nt_h25_84_en.p
df ]
ch13_safety-health-and-environmental-protection_en_20180222_ar

•

•

•

Fundamental Guidelines for Proper Conduct of Animal Experiment and
Related Activities in Academic Research Institutions (MEXT) [link:
http://www.qda.med.kyushuu.ac.jp:8080/koukai/rules/Fundamental%20Guidelines.pdf ]
Guidelines for Proper Conduct of Animal Experiments (Science Council
of Japan)” [link:
http://www.scj.go.jp/ja/info/kohyo/pdf/kohyo-20-k16-2e.pdf]
Act on Domestic Animal Infectious Diseases Control [link:
http://www.japaneselawtranslation.go.jp/law/detail/?re=01&dn=1&x=0&
y=0&co=1&ia=03&yo=&gn=&sy=&ht=&no=&bu=&ta=&ky=%E5%A
E%B6%E7%95%9C%E4%BC%9D%E6%9F%93&page=1]

•

Act on the Conservation and Sustainable Use of Biological Diversity
through Rules on the Use of Living Modified Organisms [link
http://www.japaneselawtranslation.go.jp/law/detail/?ft=1&re=01&dn=1
&x=48&y=16&co=01&ia=03&ky=%E9%81%BA%E4%BC%9D%E5%
AD%90%E7%B5%84%E6%8F%9B%E3%81%88%E7%94%9F%E7%8
9%A9%E7%AD%89%E3%81%AE%E4%BD%BF%E7%94%A8%E7%
AD%89%E3%81%AE%E8%A6%8F%E5%88%B6%E3%81%AB%E3
%82%88%E3%82%8B%E7%94%9F%E7%89%A9%E3%81%AE%E5
%A4%9A%E6%A7%98%E6%80%A7%E3%81%AE%E7%A2%BA%E
4%BF%9D%E3%81%AB%E9%96%A2%E3%81%99%E3%82%8B%E
6%B3%95%E5%BE%8B&page=1]

•

Control on animal import [link:
http://www.mhlw.go.jp/english/topics/importanimal/]
Animal Resources Section WEB site [link: https://groups.oist.jp/ja/ars]

•

13.3.10 Experiments Involving the Use of Radiation
Operation of experiments involving use of radiation must comply with the
following Rules and Acts, and other legal and regulatory provisions. In addition,
completion of appropriate training programs and necessary procedures is also
required before commencing any experiments in this category. Only the
Radiation Protection Supervisor can handle the procurement procedures of
Radioisotopes. Of note, the “Act concerning Prevention of Radiation Hazards
due to Radioisotopes, etc.” may require installation of equipment generating
radiation be performed under a permit obtained from or a notification submitted
to the regulatory authority in advance of the installation.
•

OIST Graduate University Rules for Prevention of Radiation Hazards
[link: https://groups.oist.jp/sites/default/files/imce/u318/docs/Rulesfor-Prevention-of-Radiation-Hazards.pdf]
ch13_safety-health-and-environmental-protection_en_20180222_ar

•

•

OIST Graduate University Instructions on Prevention of Radiation
Hazards [link:
https://groups.oist.jp/sites/default/files/imce/u318/docs/Instruction
s-for-Prevention-of-Radiation-Hazards.pdf]
OIST Graduate University Rules for Radiation Safety Committee [link:
https://groups.oist.jp/sites/default/files/imce/u318/docs/Rules-forRadiation-Safety-Committee.pdf]

•

OIST Graduate University Instructions for Joint Use of RI Facility [link:
https://groups.oist.jp/sites/default/files/imce/u318/docs/Instructions-forJoint-Use-of-RI-Facility.pdf]

•

Manual for the handling of Radioisotopes [link:
https://groups.oist.jp/sites/default/files/imce/u318/docs/ri_manual_e.pdf]

•

Act Concerning Prevention of Radiation Hazards due to Radioisotopes,
etc. [link:

http://www.japaneselawtranslation.go.jp/law/detail/?ft=1&re=01&dn=1
&x=56&y=25&co=01&ia=03&ky=%E6%94%BE%E5%B0%84%E6%8
0%A7%E5%90%8C%E4%BD%8D%E5%85%83%E7%B4%A0%E7%
AD%89%E3%81%AB%E3%82%88%E3%82%8B%E6%94%BE%E5%
B0%84%E7%B7%9A%E9%9A%9C%E5%AE%B3%E3%81%AE%E9
%98%B2%E6%AD%A2%E3%81%AB%E9%96%A2%E3%81%99%E
3%82%8B%E6%B3%95%E5%BE%8B&page=5]
• RI WEB site (Occupational Health and Safety)[link:
https://groups.oist.jp/rs/radioisotopes]

13.3.11 Human Subjects Research
Operation of Human Subjects Research must comply with the following Rules
and Guidelines, and other legal and regulatory provisions. In addition,
completion of appropriate training programs and necessary procedures is also
required before commencing the research. To handle Human Specimens,
infection prevention measures against blood-borne pathogens must be taken.
When procuring or acquiring Human Specimens from or providing them to
other institutions, necessary procedures must be completed in compliance with
all legal and regulatory provisions concerning import/export as well as the rules
of a carrier of international shipment.
• OIST Graduate University Human Subject Research Rules [link:
https://groups.oist.jp/sites/default/files/imce/u300/human%20subjects%20r
esearch%20rules%201.02_dor.pdf]
•

OIST Graduate University Detailed Information on Human Subjects
Research [link:
https://groups.oist.jp/sites/default/files/imce/u300/detailed%20infor
ch13_safety-health-and-environmental-protection_en_20180222_ar

•

•

mation%20on%20human%20subjects%20research%201.01.pdf]
OIST Graduate University Human Subjects Research Committee Rules
[Link:
https://groups.oist.jp/sites/default/files/imce/u300/rules%20for%20hum
an%20subjects%20research%20review%20committee%201.02_dor.pdf
]
OIST Graduate University Human Subject Research Manual [link: ]

•

Ethical Guidelines for Medical and Health Research Involving Human
Subjects [link: http://www.lifescience.mext.go.jp/files/pdf/n1500_01.pdf]

•

Declaration of Helsinki (WMA) [link:
https://www.wma.net/policies-post/wma-declaration-of-helsinkiethical-principles-for-medical-research-involving-humansubjects/]
The Belmont Report (The National Commission for the Protection of
Human Subjects of Biomedical and Behavioral Research) [link:
http://www.hhs.gov/ohrp/humansubjects/guidance/belmont.html]
Human Subjects Research WEB site (Occupational Health and Safety)
[link: https://groups.oist.jp/rs/human-subjects-research]
Health and Labour Sciences Researches WEB site (MHLW)[link:
http://www.mhlw.go.jp/stf/seisakunitsuite/bunya/hokabunya/kenk
yujigyou/i-kenkyu/] (Japanese website)
Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology,
Bioethics and Biosafety WEB site (MEXT)
[http://www.lifescience.mext.go.jp/bioethics/index.html ] (Japanese
website)

•

•
•

•

13.3.12 Chemical Materials
(Rules that apply to Radioisotopes (RIs) are described in the section of
Experiments Involving the Use of Radiation [link 13.3.10].) Handling, use
and storage of chemical materials at the University must comply with “OIST
Graduate University Rules for the Management of Chemical Materials,” the
“Industrial Safety and Health Act” and other relevant legal and regulatory
provisions. A user of chemical materials must be aware that safety
requirements differ depending on each specific chemical. In addition,
completion of all necessary training programs is required before
commencing any experiments involving use of chemical materials.
• Occupational Health and Safety WEB site [link:
https://groups.oist.jp/rs]
•

Chemical Hazards Control Division WEB site (MHLW) [link:
http://www.mhlw.go.jp/new-info/kobetu/seikatu/kagaku/]
ch13_safety-health-and-environmental-protection_en_20180222_ar

•

•

(Japanese website)
Chemical Management Policy WEB site (METI) [link:
http://www.meti.go.jp/policy/chemical_management/]
(Japanese website)
National Institute of Technology and Evaluation (NITE) [link:
http://www.nite.go.jp/en/index.html]
13.3.12.1 Basic Chemical Safety Rules
 Before working with any new chemical materials, use Chemical
Risk Information Platform (CRIP) and Material Safety Data Sheet
(MSDS).
 Wear appropriate personal protective equipment (such as lab coat,
rubber gloves, safety glasses and masks).
 Consider a lower risk alternative, if a chemical material that you
intend to work with poses a high potential risk.
 Before use, again review the physical and chemical properties of
chemical materials that you will work with, along with
information concerning hazards and disposal methods.
 Plan and take safety measures to prevent potential accidents and
mitigate hazards.
13.3.12.2 Export/Import of Chemical Materials
In Japan, the “Act on the Evaluation of Chemical Substances and
Regulation of Their Manufacture, etc.” has been established to
evaluate whether new chemical substances to be manufactured or
imported have harmful properties to humans, and to control the
manufacture, import and use of chemical substances posing the risk of
impairing human health through the environment. Those who intend to
import chemical materials must contact the Chemical Materials Safety
Supervisor at Occupational Health and Safety, and take necessary
instructions from the Supervisor.


Chemical Materials WEB site [link:
https://groups.oist.jp/rs/chemical-materials]



Chemical Management WEB site (METI) [link:
http://www.meti.go.jp/policy/chemical_management/index.html]
(Japanese website).

13.3.12.3 Transport of Chemical Materials
Transport of chemical materials is controlled by the provisions of the
Postal Act, Terms and Conditions of Domestic Postal Services,
ch13_safety-health-and-environmental-protection_en_20180222_ar

Universal Postal Convention, IATA Dangerous Goods Rules, etc., and
transportable goods are specified in these stipulations. Containers and
packages for transport must comply with specific requirements.
Contact the carrier or shipping company, as they may decline to handle
delivery of dangerous goods or quarantine items. See 13.2.2 [link:
13.2.2] in this Chapter, and the University’s Security Trade Control
website [link: https://groups.oist.jp/rs/security-export-control].
13.3.12.4 Special Requirements for handling Chemical Materials
The chemical materials listed below have been deemed hazardous by
regulatory agencies and are subject to stringent requirements regarding
their handling, management and storage. In addition, if a non-listed
chemical material is expected to pose a hazard similar to those
associated with any of the below-listed chemical materials, then those
safe handling requirements apply. Further, other relevant legal and
regulatory provisions and OIST Rules must also be observed as well:
(a) Organic solvents (Ordinance on the Prevention of Organic
Solvent Poisoning) [link: http://law.egov.go.jp/htmldata/S47/S47F04101000036.html]
(b) Specified chemical substances (Ordinance on Prevention of
Hazards due to Specified Chemical Substances) [link:
http://law.e-gov.go.jp/htmldata/S47/S47F04101000036.html]
(c) ) Poisonous substances[link:
https://groups.oist.jp/sites/default/files/imce/u318/docs/3Poisono
us-materials.pdf], Deleterious substances[link:
https://groups.oist.jp/sites/default/files/imce/u318/docs/4Deleterio
us-materials.pdf] and Specified Poisonous Substances[link:
https://groups.oist.jp/sites/default/files/imce/u318/docs/5Specified
-Poisons.pdf] (Poisonous and Deleterious Substances Control
Act)
(d) Dangerous materials (Fire Service Act) [link:
https://groups.oist.jp/sites/default/files/imce/u318/docs/6Hazardou
s-materials.pdf]
(e) ) High pressure gas (High Pressure Gas Safety Act) [link:
https://groups.oist.jp/sites/default/files/imce/u318/docs/9Highpressure-gas.pdf]
(f) Narcotics [link :
https://groups.oist.jp/sites/default/files/imce/u697/docs/Narco
tics-list_en.pdf ,
https://groups.oist.jp/sites/default/files/imce/u697/docs/Psych
otropics-list_en.pdf]（Narcotics and Psychotropics Control
ch13_safety-health-and-environmental-protection_en_20180222_ar

Act）
(g) Nuclear fuel material (Act on the Regulation of Nuclear
Source Material, Nuclear Fuel Material and Reactors) [link:
http://www.japaneselawtranslation.go.jp/law/detail/?x=33&
y=18&re=01&co=1&ia=03&yo=&gn=&sy=&ht=&no=&bu
=&ta=&ky=%E6%A0%B8%E5%8E%9F%E6%96%99%E7
%89%A9%E8%B3%AA%E3%80%81%E6%A0%B8%E7
%87%83%E6%96%99%E7%89%A9%E8%B3%AA%E5%
8F%8A%E3%81%B3%E5%8E%9F%E5%AD%90%E7%8
2%89%E3%81%AE%E8%A6%8F%E5%88%B6%E3%81
%AB%E9%96%A2%E3%81%99%E3%82%8B%E6%B3%
95%E5%BE%8B&page=1 ]
•

•

•

•

•

•

OIST Graduate University Rules for the Management of
Chemical Materials [link:
https://groups.oist.jp/sites/default/files/imce/u318/docs/r
ules-on-chemicals.pdf ]
OIST Graduate University Rules for Poisonous and Deleterious
Substances Management [link:
https://groups.oist.jp/sites/default/files/imce/u318/docs/ruleson-poisonous-and-deleterious-substances.pdf]
OIST Graduate University Narcotics/Psychotropics Management
Rules [link:
https://groups.oist.jp/sites/default/files/imce/u318/docs/narcotics
psychotropics-management-rules.pdf]
OIST Graduate University Rules for the Management of Nuclear
Fuel Materials [link:
https://groups.oist.jp/sites/default/files/imce/u318/docs/Rulesfor-the-Management-of-Nuclear-Fuel-Materials.pdf]
OIST Chemical Management Manual [link:
https://groups.oist.jp/sites/default/files/imce/u318/docs/chemical_m
anual_e.pdf]
OIST Narcotics and Psychotropics Manual [link: ]

13.3.13 Field Work
Field work involve risks and dangers which are different from those that may be
present in indoor academic or research activities. Besides, access to work sites
and collection of biological resources are subject to restrictions imposed by
various legal and regulatory provisions. Thus, operation of field work require
careful planning of the work, taking measures to ensure safety, and acting in
strict compliance with the law. People who intend to conduct any field work
ch13_safety-health-and-environmental-protection_en_20180222_ar

must carefully read OIST Rules for Field Work and OIST Field Work Manual
[link: https://oist-prod-groups.s3-ap-northeast-1.amazonaws.com/s3fspublic/imce/u103453/oist_en_a4_1007.pdf] beforehand, and complete all
appropriate training programs, acquire required qualifications, and receive
designated health examinations.
13.3.14 Rules Regarding Health & Wellness
All University students and employees must pay attention to their own health
and wellness in addition to complying with safety rules. In particular, each work
area should be free of hazards and contain the proper equipment, should be
appropriately lighted, should provide ergonomically correct tools, equipment,
and furniture, and should be properly ventilated. Students and employees should
also be mindful of the need for enough sleep each day, for a modicum of daily
exercise, for a nutritious diet, and for periods of relaxation and recreation.
13.3.15 Rules Concerning Environmental Protection
University students and employees must perform their University duties in
compliance with the following:
1. Reduce energy consumption and greenhouse-gas emission by using
facilities and apparatus/equipment efficiently;
2. Manage/handle hazardous materials in keeping with legal and
University requirements to prevent release to the environment.
3. Participate in training sessions concerning environmental protection.
4. Actively exchange information that promotes environmental protection
activities.
5. Minimize waste and reuse resources where feasible.
13.3.15.1 Waste Management
Management of waste must comply with the following Rules and
Acts, and other legal and regulatory provisions. All training programs
and procedures required for such work must be completed before
commencing work. Appropriate protective gear must be worn in
carrying out waste handling and disposal:


OIST Graduate University Rules for Waste Management” [link :
https://groups.oist.jp/sites/default/files/imce/u318/docs/Rules_for_
the_Management_of_Waste_111101.pdf]



OIST Graduate University Manual for the Management of
Waste” [link:
https://groups.oist.jp/sites/default/files/imce/u318/docs/waste_ma
nual_e.pdf]
ch13_safety-health-and-environmental-protection_en_20180222_ar



Waste Disposal and Public Cleansing Act [link:
http://www.env.go.jp/en/laws/recycle/01.pdf]

13.3.16 Disaster Preparedness & Emergency Response Rules Prevention of
hazardous incidents and appropriate responses under an emergency situation is
possible if each person knows what an emergency situation is like and what to
do in response. Employees and students must maintain preparedness by
periodically reviewing emergency response procedures, emergency contacts,
evacuation routes, for the areas where they work. Employees and students must
read and understand “University Emergency, Safety, Health Procedures &
Guidelines” [link:
https://groups.oist.jp/sites/default/files/imce/u745/ESH_procedures_and_guidel
ines_e_Lab1.pdf ]. Employees and students should also prepare an individual
emergency response plan based on the specifics of their work. Please refer to
the “Typhoon Guidelines” [link:
https://hr.oist.jp/sites/default/files/files/Typhoon_Guideline_JP_20160224.pdf]
in case of typhoon. For earthquake, take necessary preparedness measures in
accordance with the "Earthquake Preparedness Manual" [link: xxx].
13.4 Responsibilities
13.4.1 All Employees and Students
The University's safety management is based on the premise that all
members of the OIST community shares responsibility for ensuring safety.
Every member of the OIST community must comply with the University's
safety, health, environmental protection, and disaster preparedness program.
13.4.2 Faculty members and Section Leaders
Faculty members and section leaders fall into the "foremen" under Article
60 of the Industrial Safety and Health Act (those who directly guide or
supervise workers in operations), and have the following responsibilities:
they are primarily responsible for the safety and environmental sanitation of
their laboratory or workplace, and must have an understanding of the
hazards associated with operation and/or research and disseminate the
information on hazards to their members under their supervision; they also
need to set and reinforce safety standards for their laboratory and/or office,
having their members receive proper training on general and lab-specific
hazards and making sure that the members are using the appropriate
equipment following proper procedures; they need to have their members
receive designated health examinations and make sure that the members
have completed the health examinations; they are also required to make
ch13_safety-health-and-environmental-protection_en_20180222_ar

sure that the members comply with relevant legal and regulatory provisions,
and OIST Rules and follow proper procedures; further, during lab rotation
and when appointed to a PhD Thesis Supervisor, they are primarily
responsible for ensuring safety and environmental sanitation of the students.
13.4.3

Fire Safety Manager

Fire Safety Manager is responsible for fire prevention management for the
University. This includes preparing a fire defense plan, providing drills for
fire fighting and evacuation, enabling emergency reporting and evacuation,
ensuring inspection and management of fire extinguishers and similar
equipment, and other efforts to prevent fires and mitigate the effects of both
man-caused and natural disasters.
13.4.4. Manager of Occupational Health and Safety
Manager of Occupational Health and Safety is responsible for ensuring
research in the University compliance with requirements of the University’s
rules, and legal and regulatory provisions.
13.4.5 Manager of Animal Resources Section
Manager of Animal Resources Section is responsible for ensuring safety,
and health, environmental protection, and disaster preparedness in Animal
Facilities and Animal Experiments.
13.4.6 Manager of General Facility Management Section
Manager of General Facility Management Section is responsible for
management and maintenance of facilities in a manner that will ensure
the workplace safety and health, environmental protection, and disaster
preparedness.
13.4.7 Research Personnel
In order to avoid unnecessary risk to themselves and/or other researchers,
individuals engaging in research at OIST, regardless of their titles such as
researcher, technician or student, are responsible for conducting experiments
only when they acquire sufficient knowledge and understanding of health
and safety issues associated with research activities. To this end, research
personnel must actively participate in a variety of educational and training
programs on safety and health, and follow appropriate instructions and
ch13_safety-health-and-environmental-protection_en_20180222_ar

advice from faculty members, section leaders and personnel associated with
OIST safety management duties, including principle investigators, as listed
below.
13.4.8
Specific Research-Related Responsible Roles
 Biosafety Officer： Must ensure compliance with legal and regulatory
provisions as well as the University Rules so that the operation of
Recombinant DNA Experiment and Experiment Handling Pathogens
and Toxins is appropriately performed in the University.
 Human Subject Research Officer： Must ensure compliance with legal
and regulatory provisions, and guidelines as well as the University
Rules so that the operation of Human Subject Research is appropriately
performed in the University.
 Personal Information Officer for Human Subjects Research： Must
manage personal information to ensure appropriate protection of
personal information related to Human Subject Research in the
University.
 RI Facility Director： Must manage and mitigate radiation hazards and
ensure compliance with legal and regulatory provisions as well as the
University Rules so that experiments using radioisotopes are
appropriately performed in the University.
 Radiation Protection Supervisor： Assists the RI Facility Director, and
must ensure compliance with legal and regulatory provisions as well as
the University Rules such that the prevention of radiation hazards and
the implementation of proper experiments are ensured.
 Chemical Materials Safety Officer： Must ensure compliance with legal
and regulatory provisions as well as the University Rules so that the
handling of chemical materials is appropriately performed in the
University.
 Diving Safety Officer: Must ensure safety and compliance with legal
and regulatory provisions, as well as the University Rules, for diving
and snorkeling, through activities such as reviewing plans involving
diving or snorkeling before institutional review by the Field Work
Safety Committee, and providing safety training (including hands-on
trainings) and giving guidance necessary for diving or snorkeling.
 Animal Experiment Coordinator： Must ensure compliance with legal
and regulatory provisions, and guidelines as well as the University
Rules so that the operation of Animal Experiment is appropriately
performed in the University.
 Drug Control Supervisor： Must ensure compliance with legal and
regulatory provisions as well as the University Rules so that the
ch13_safety-health-and-environmental-protection_en_20180222_ar



handling of Narcotics and Psychotropics is appropriately performed in
the University.
Drug Control Supervisor for Animal Facility： Must ensure compliance
with legal and regulatory provisions as well as the University Rules so
that the handling of Narcotics and Psychotropics used for animal
clinical diagnosis purposes is appropriately performed in the
University.

13.5 Procedures
The specific response and reporting procedure based on 13.2.5 are following. The
other procedures of each particular item in this chapter are defined in each set of
relevant University Rules:
a. If incidents, accidents, injuries, or sickness occurs as a result of work,
the victim or the witness must immediately report to the victim's
supervisor and the Central Control Room (Bosai Center) [link: 10.8.4].
When treatment for injured personnel is necessary, priority should be
given to contacting the Health Center or the public emergency services.
b. Depending on the details of the incident, accident, injury or sickness,
the Central Control Room (Bosai Center) shall contact the public
emergency services, Occupational Health and Safety (Safety and
Health Committee [link: https://groups.oist.jp/rs/safety-and-healthcommittee-minutes] Secretariat), Health Center, and/or other
relevant sections as necessary. If a victim is a student, the Central
Control Room (Bosai Center) shall also contact the Student Support
Section.
c. The Occupational Health and Safety, Health Center, and relevant
sections shall immediately share information on the incident,
accident, injury, or sickness and take necessary action.
d. The Occupational Health and Safety Leader shall report to the
General Safety and Health Manager and the Safety and Health
Committee members. For serious incidents, accidents, injuries, or
sickness, the Occupational Health and Safety Leader shall also report
immediately to the President and to the Dean of Research
 Details of response procedures shall be in accordance with
the “OIST Graduate University Emergency, Safety, and
Health Procedures and Guidelines [link:
https://groups.oist.jp/sites/default/files/imce/u745/ESH_procedure
s_and_guidelines_e_Lab1.pdf ] and other rules.
 If the victim or witness is able to identify the section that
should respond, then he/she may directly contact that section
ch13_safety-health-and-environmental-protection_en_20180222_ar





without following the procedure above (for example,
contacting the Animal Resources Section in the case of an
incident or accident during animal experiment).
It is not necessary to follow the procedure above in the case
of minor incidents or accidents. However, a report shall be sent
by email or other means to the Occupational Health and Safety
at a later date. [link: 13.2.5]
There is a smart-phone application that may be used to send
the emergency report to all relevant staff including university
Senior Level Executive [link: 30.2.2].

13.6 Forms
13.6.1 Recombinant DNA Experiment
See Occupational Health and Safety WEB site [link:
https://groups.oist.jp/rs/narcotics-and-psychotropics]
13.6.2 Experiment Handling Pathogens and Toxins
See Occupational Health and Safety WEB site [link:
https://groups.oist.jp/rs/pathogens-and-toxins]
13.6.3 Common to Recombinant DNA Experiment and
Experiment Handling Pathogens and Toxins
See Occupational Health and Safety WEB site [link:
https://groups.oist.jp/rs/recombinant-dna]
13.6.4 Animal Experiment
See Animal Resources Section WEB site [link: https://groups.oist.jp/ars]
13.6.5 Human Subjects Research
See Occupational Health and Safety WEB site [link:
https://groups.oist.jp/rs/human-subjects-research]
13.6.6 Chemical Material
See Occupational Health and Safety WEB site (chemical material) [link:
https://groups.oist.jp/rs/chemical-materials] and Occupational Health and
Safety WEB site (narcotics and psychotropics) [link:
https://groups.oist.jp/rs/narcotics-and-psychotropics]
ch13_safety-health-and-environmental-protection_en_20180222_ar

13.6.7 Radioisotopes
See Occupational Health and Safety WEB site [link:
https://groups.oist.jp/rs/radioisotopes]

13.6.8 Field Work
See Occupational Health and Safety WEB site (Field Work) [link:
https://groups.oist.jp/rs/%E9%87%8E%E5%A4%96%E6%B4%BB%E5%8B%9
5]

13.6.9 Equipment requiring a License or Submission of a Notification
(Regulated Equipment)
See Occupational Health and Safety WEB site (Regulated Equipment) [link:
https://groups.oist.jp/rs/regulated-equipment]

13.7 Contacts
Policy Owner:
Dean of Research
Vice President for Buildings & Facility Management
13.7.1 Other Contacts:
Section Leader, Occupational Health and Safety
Section Leader, Animal Resources
Section Leader, Imaging
Section Leader, Instrumental Analysis
Section Leader, Mechanical Engineering & Microfabrication Support
Section Leader, Facility Management

ch13_safety-health-and-environmental-protection_en_20180222_ar

OIST Graduate University
Policies, Rules and Procedures
Authority: Approved by the President

Chapter 14 Intellectual Property and Technology Transfer
14.1 Policy
Although the research and teaching missions of the OIST Graduate University (the
University) take precedence over development of intellectual property, the
University recognizes that its teaching and research have the potential to generate
an array of new ideas, processes, materials, devices and the like, which may be of
benefit to the larger world as well as to the University.
Owners of qualifying new or novel ideas, processes, materials, devices, creations,
and discoveries may be granted exclusive rights to use and commercialize their
intellectual property. Thus, intellectual property has the potential to generate
unrestricted income to support the University’s research and education. After its
faculty, students, staff and other human resources, intellectual property is the
University’s most important asset.
Consequently, all intellectual property (IP) conceived, created, developed, or first
reduced to practice in whole or in part by members of the University’s faculty
(including student employees) or staff in the course of their University
responsibilities, or with more than incidental use of University resources (which
may be the case with visiting scholars and others not in the University's employ),
belongs to the University unless otherwise provided. All members of the University
community are expected to preserve, manage and protect IP in the same manner
as they would for any other University asset. Even an invention that may not be
patentable for any reason may still be valuable and important - for example, as a
trade secret [link: 14.8.9] or as technical "know-how."
It is University policy that royalties and similar remuneration deriving from its IP
shall be shared [link: 14.3.7.3] with the inventor/author.
In addition to faculty and staff (including student employees), the provisions of the
University's IP policy extends to:
 All graduate students and postdoctoral fellows, and
 Non-employees who participate in research projects at the
University (e.g., visiting faculty, industrial personnel, fellows,
etc.).
1
ch14_Intellectual-Property-&-Technology-Transfer_20160901_en_cl

14.2 General Considerations
14.2.1 Confidentiality Obligations.
Nondisclosure and Confidentiality Agreements raise significant concerns.
The terms of such an agreement may conflict with the University’s
Openness in Research Policy [link: 1.3.1]. A contractual commitment to
keep information secret can severely restrict the ability of University faculty
to pursue research in the manner they choose and can make it impossible
for the University to protect ideas and inventions deriving from the work of
its faculty and researchers. Once signed, any violation of a nondisclosure or
confidentiality agreement can result in an injunction or monetary damages
being assessed against the discloser. It is imperative that the General
Counsel [link: 2.5] be consulted whenever it appears that the University
may be the recipient of information or items that are proprietary,
confidential, or otherwise subject to a promise not to disclose. It is
forbidden to sign or otherwise bind the University to a confidentiality
obligation without first having obtained written approval from the General
Counsel.
14.2.2 Intellectual Property
“Intellectual Property” includes, among other things, new or novel devices,
processes, compounds, materials, and authored works (such as software)
that may be eligible for protection under laws governing patents [link:
14.8.6], copyrights [link: 14.8.2], trademarks [link: 14.8.10], and trade
secrets [link: 14.8.9].
14.2.3 More than incidental use of University resources
“More than incidental use of University resources” [link: 14.8.5] refers to
more than minimal use of specialized, research-related facilities, equipment,
supplies, or staff provided by the University for academic purposes, as well
as significant use of "on-the-job" time.
The occasional and infrequent use of the following would typically not
constitute “more than incidental use of University resources”:



Routinely available, office-type equipment, including desktop
computers and commercially-available software, and
Reference materials or other resources collected on the University
campus, and which are generally available in non-University
locations.
2
ch14_Intellectual-Property-&-Technology-Transfer_20160901_en_cl

14.2.4 Assignment of Rights
If the Technology Licensing Section (TLS) cannot, or decides not to, proceed
in a timely manner to patent and/or license an invention, TLS may assign
ownership to the inventor or inventors upon request to the extent possible
under the terms of any agreement with a sponsoring agency that supported
or related to the work. In such cases, the inventor may request and be
granted rights by the sponsoring agency to an invention made under such
an agreement provided that a well-conceived and detailed plan for
commercial development accompanies the request.
14.2.5 Public Domain
Following consultation with the TLS, the inventor, or inventors acting
collectively when there are more than one, may place inventions in the
public domain [link: 14.8.7] if that would be in the best interest of
technology transfer and if doing so is not in violation of the terms of any
agreements that supported or governed the work. The University will not
assert IP rights when inventors have thus placed their inventions in the
public domain.
14.2.6 Reports
Agencies sponsoring research at the University usually require reports of all
inventions, whether or not they are considered patentable.
14.3 Rules
14.3.1 Duty to Disclose Potential IP
All potentially patentable inventions or copyrightable works that were
conceived or first reduced to practice in whole or in part by members of the
faculty or staff (including student employees) of the University in the course
of their University responsibilities, or with more than incidental use of
University resources, must be disclosed on a timely basis to the University,
through its TLS using the form “Invention Disclosure Form [link: 14.6]”.
14.3.1.1 Graduate students, postdoctoral fellows, visiting researchers
and scientist, and other non-employees must disclose to the
University all potentially patentable inventions conceived or first
reduced to practice in whole or in part in the course of participation
in research projects at the University, or with more than incidental
use of University resources.

3
ch14_Intellectual-Property-&-Technology-Transfer_20160901_en_cl

14.3.1.2 Title to such inventions shall be assigned to the University
(PCA) [link: 14.6], regardless of the funding source.
14.3.2 Confidentiality Obligation
No member of the University may sign an agreement binding the University
to a confidentiality obligation without first obtaining written approval to do
so from the General Counsel (See 14.2.1 [link: 14.2.1]).
14.3.3 Royalty Sharing
The University shall share royalties [link: 14.3.7.3] from inventions assigned
to the University with the inventor in accordance with provisions set out
elsewhere in this Policy.
14.3.4 Assignment of Ownership
(See 14.2.4[link: 14.2.4]).
14.3.5 Waivers
Waivers of the provisions of this policy may be granted by the President or
the President's designate on a case-by-case basis, giving consideration to,
among other things, the University’s obligations to sponsors, whether the
waiver would be in the best interest of technology transfer, whether the
waiver would be in the best interest of the University, and whether the
waiver would result in a conflict of interest. In addition, the President may
expand upon these provisions and shall adopt rules, based on the same
factors as well as appropriateness to the University's relationship with
inventors, for the ownership of potentially patentable inventions created or
discovered with more than incidental use of University resources by
students when not working as employees of the University, by visiting
scholars and by others not in the University's employ.
14.3.6 Rules Regarding Patents
14.3.6.1 Patent Agreements. All faculty, staff, student employees,
graduate students and postdoctoral fellows must sign the OIST
Graduate University Patent and Copyright Agreement (“PCA”) [link:
14.6] at the time of their assignment. In addition, non-employees
who participate or intend to participate in research projects at the
University must also sign a PCA.
A variation of this agreement has been created for individuals with
prior obligations regarding the disclosure and assignment of
4
ch14_Intellectual-Property-&-Technology-Transfer_20160901_en_cl

intellectual property. See, “OIST Graduate University Patent &
Copyright Agreement for Personnel at OIST Graduate University
Who Have a Prior Existing and Conflicting Intellectual Property
Agreement with Another Employer (PCA2) [link: 14.6]”.   Each
hiring division is responsible for getting a PCA, or PCA2, signed at
the time of the individual's initial association with the University.
14.3.6.2 Invention Disclosures [link: 14.8.4]. Inventors must prepare
and submit on a timely basis an invention disclosure for each
potentially patentable invention conceived or first actually reduced
to practice in whole or in part in the course of their University
responsibilities or with more than incidental use of University
resources.  An Invention Disclosure Form [link: 14.6] describing the
invention and including other related facts should be prepared by the
inventor and forwarded to TLS. TLS shall decide whether the
invention should be evaluated at the Business Potential Evaluation
Committee [link: ] in 10 business days.
14.3.6.2.1 Practical Considerations. Individuals covered by
this policy are expected to apply reasonable good faith
judgment as to whether a new finding may qualify as an
invention [link: 14.8.3] to be disclosed to the University for
evaluation for potential patentability. The TLS will decide
whether to convene the Business Potential Evaluation
Committee to evaluate the value of the invention with
appropriate professional expertise at the earliest possible date.
14.3.6.2.2 Value of Unpatented Inventions. An invention,
although not patentable for any reason, may still be valuable
and important - for example, trade secrets and technical
“know-how” encompassing proprietary information of a
valuable and confidential nature.   Agencies sponsoring
research at the University usually require reports of all
inventions, whether or not they are considered patentable.
14.3.7 Patent Licensing
The University encourages the development of inventions and technology
resulting from University research by industry for public use and benefit. It
recognizes that protection of proprietary rights in the form of a patent or
copyright are often necessary - particularly with inventions derived from
basic research - to encourage a company to risk the investment of its
5
ch14_Intellectual-Property-&-Technology-Transfer_20160901_en_cl

personnel and financial resources to develop the invention. In some cases
an exclusive license may be necessary to provide an incentive for a company
to undertake commercial development and production. Nonexclusive
licenses allow several companies to exploit an invention.
Not all inventions are patentable. Questions relating to patentability are
often complex and usually require professional assistance. Nonetheless, it
can be said that an important criterion of patentability is that an invention
must not be obvious to a person with ordinary skill in that particular field.
It must also be novel, in the sense that it not have been previously publicly
known or used by others or patented or described in a printed publication
anywhere.
14.3.7.1 Priorities. The research and teaching missions of the
University always take precedence over patent considerations. While
the University recognizes the benefits of patent development, it is
most important that the direction of University research not be
established or unduly influenced by patent considerations or
personal financial interests. This priority to research and teaching
does not exonerate inventors of their obligation to disclose
inventions to TLS.
14.3.7.2 Responsibility for Licensing. The TLS handles the evaluation,
marketing, negotiation and licensing of University-owned inventions
with commercial potential.
14.3.7.3 Royalty Distribution and Equity Participation. Cash
royalties and equity participation shall be handled, in principle, as
set forth below.
14.3.7.3.1 Cash Royalties. After deductions for TLS expenses,
royalty income is divided one-third to the inventor, one-third
to the inventor’s laboratory, and one-third to the University.
When more than one laboratory is involved, the inventor shall
designate the distribution of the one-third allocated for the
laboratory based on support of the work. If the inventor’s
laboratory dissolved, the University shall assign the
distribution of the laboratory to the University.
14.3.7.3.1.1 A deduction of 15% to cover the
administrative overhead of the TLS is taken from gross
6
ch14_Intellectual-Property-&-Technology-Transfer_20160901_en_cl

royalty income, followed by a deduction for any directly
assignable expenses, typically patent filing fees.
14.3.7.3.1.2
Disagreements
involving
royalty
distribution will be reviewed and resolved by the TLS;
involved parties may appeal the TLS resolution to the
President.
14.3.7.3.2 Equity Participation. The University may at times
accept equity from a corporate licensee as part of the licensing
agreement (all other cash payments, including royalties based
on sales, will be distributed in accordance with the provisions
of 14.3.7.3.1, above.) 
14.3.7.4 Loss of Patentability. Inventions that are patentable initially
may become non-patentable for a variety of reasons. An invention
becomes non-patentable if a formal application is not filed with the
Patent Office within a prescribed period of time of disclosure in a
publication or of any other action that results in the details of the
invention becoming generally available.
14.3.7.5 Filing for International Patent Protection. International
patent protection is important for industry to develop its product
world-wide. An International Patent application may be executed
through the Patent Cooperation Treaty (PCT) route. The PCT
procedure has many advantages for the applicant, including giving
the applicant up to 18 months to seek protection in foreign countries.
14.3.8 Rules Regarding Copyright
Copyright is the ownership and control of the intellectual property in
original works of authorship, including software, which are subject to
copyright law. It is the policy of the University that all rights in copyright
shall remain with the creator unless the work is a “work-for-hire” (the
contract for the work stipulates that copyright vests in the University), is
supported by a direct allocation of funds through the University for the
pursuit of a specific project, is commissioned by the University, makes more
than incidental use of University resources or personnel, or is otherwise
subject to contractual obligations. 
The Copyright Policy of the University is intended to accomplish the
following:
7
ch14_Intellectual-Property-&-Technology-Transfer_20160901_en_cl







Enable the University to foster the free and creative
expression and exchange of ideas and comment;
Preserve traditional University practices and privileges with
respect to the publication of scholarly works;
Establish principles and procedures for sharing income
derived from copyrightable material produced at the
University; and
Protect the University's assets and imprimatur.

All faculty, staff, student employees, graduate students and postdoctoral
fellows, as well as non-employees who participate or intend to participate
in teaching and/or research or scholarship projects at the University are
bound by this policy. They are also required to sign a Patent & Copyright
Agreement (PCA or PCA2) [link: 14.6]. The PCA assigns, with certain
exceptions, rights to copyrightable works resulting from University projects
to the University. However, this policy applies, and those subject to this
policy are deemed to assign their rights to copyrightable works, whether or
not a PCA is signed and is on file.   Royalty income received by the
University for such works will normally be distributed in accordance with
University policy set forth below. Physical embodiments of copyrightable
works may also be subject to the University’s Tangible Research Policy [link:
14.3.9].
14.3.8.1 Scope of Copyright Protection. Copyright protection does
not extend to any idea, process, concept, discovery or the like, but
only to the work in which it may be embodied, illustrated, or
explained. For example, a written description of a manufacturing
process is copyrightable, but the copyright only prevents
unauthorized copying of the description; the process described could
be freely copied unless it enjoys some other protection, such as
patent. Subject to various exceptions and limitations provided for in
the copyright law, the copyright owner has the exclusive right to
reproduce the work, prepare derivative works, distribute copies by
sale or otherwise, and display or perform the work publicly.
Ownership of copyright is distinct from the ownership of any
material object in which the work may be embodied. For example, if
one purchases a videotape, one does not necessarily obtain the right
to make a public showing for profit. 
14.3.8.1.1 Books, Article, and Similar Works, including Non8
ch14_Intellectual-Property-&-Technology-Transfer_20160901_en_cl

patentable Software. Except to the extent set forth in this
Chapter, the University does not claim ownership to
pedagogical, scholarly, or artistic works, regardless of their
form of expression. Such works include those of students
created in the course of their education, such as dissertations,
papers and articles. The University claims no ownership of
popular nonfiction, novels, textbooks, poems, musical
compositions, non-patentable software, or other works of
artistic imagination, which are not institutional works and did
not make significant use of University resources or the
services of University non-faculty employees working within
the scope of their employment.
14.3.8.2 Institutional Works. The University shall retain ownership
of works created as institutional works. Institutional works include
works that are supported by a specific allocation of University funds
or that are created at the direction of the University for a specific
University purpose. Institutional works also include works whose
authorship cannot be attributed to one or a discrete number of
authors but rather result from simultaneous or sequential
contributions over time by multiple faculty and students. For
example, software tools developed and improved over time by
multiple faculty and students where authorship is not appropriately
attributed to a single or defined group of authors would constitute an
institutional work. However, the mere fact that multiple individuals
have contributed to the creation of a work does not, in-and-of itself,
compel the conclusion that the work constitutes an institutional
work.
14.3.8.3 Works of Non-Employees. Works by non-employees, such
as consultants, independent contractors, etc. (“third-party nonemployees”) generally are owned by the creator and not by the
University, unless there is a written agreement to the contrary.
However, as it is University policy that the University obtains
ownership of such works, the University will generally require a
written agreement from third-party non-employees that ownership
of such works will be assigned to the University and the third-party
non-employees will agree not to prevent the University from freely
using and licensing the copyrighted material. All faculty, staff,
student employees, graduate students and postdoctoral fellows, as
well as non-employees who participate or intend to participate in
9
ch14_Intellectual-Property-&-Technology-Transfer_20160901_en_cl

teaching and/or research or scholarship projects at the University
are required to contact the General Counsel immediately to execute
a proper agreement with any third-party non-employees. Examples
of works which the University may retain third-party non-employees
to prepare are:
 Contract Research
 Reports by consultants or subcontractors
 Computer software
 Architectural or engineering drawings
 Illustrations or designs
 Artistic works
14.3.8.3.1 As discussed in Chapter 21, Use of University
Resources [link: 21], the University’s resources are to be used
solely for University purposes and not for personal gain or
personal commercial advantage, nor for any other nonUniversity purposes. Therefore, if the creator of a
copyrightable work makes more than incidental use [link:
14.8.5] of the services of University non-faculty employees or
University resources to create the work, he or she shall
disclose the work to the TLS and assign title to the University.
Questions about what constitutes incidental use should be
directed to the Executive Vice President for Technology
Development and Innovation .
14.3.8.4 Open Source Software. The University encourages the
exploration of open source software solutions in any areas of
application for research use. The University provides, for software
intended for distribution under an open source license, a general
waiver of the policy that the IP rights in software reside with the
University and must not be distributed without explicit permission.
The University encourages all staff members involved in software
development for research purpose to make that software available
under Open Source license terms (for example, the GNU General
Public License), and to contribute, as appropriate, to existing open
source software projects.
14.3.8.5 Videotaping and related Classroom Technology. Courses
taught and courseware developed for teaching at the University
belongs to the University. Any courses that are videotaped or
recorded using any media are property of the University, and may
10
ch14_Intellectual-Property-&-Technology-Transfer_20160901_en_cl

not be further distributed without permission from the Dean of
Graduate School. Blanket permission is provided for evanescent
video or other copies for the use of students, or for other University
purposes. Prior to videotaping, permission should be obtained from
anyone who will appear in the final program as well as from the Vice
President for Communications and Public Relations (Chapter
16[link: 16]).
14.3.8.6 Contractual Obligations of the University. This Copyright
Policy shall not be interpreted to limit the University’s ability to meet
its obligations for deliverables under any contract, grant, or other
arrangement with third parties, including sponsored research
agreements, license agreements and the like. Copyrightable works
that are subject to sponsored research agreements, or other
contractual obligations of the University, shall be owned by the
University, so that the University may satisfy its contractual
obligations.
14.3.8.7 Reconveyance of Copyright to Creator. When copyright is
assigned to the University because of the provisions of this policy, the
creator of the copyrighted material may make a request to the
General Counsel that ownership be reassigned to the creator. Such a
request can, at the discretion of the General Counsel, be granted if it
does not:
(i) violate any legal obligations of or to the University,
(ii) limit appropriate University uses of the materials,
(iii) create a real or potential conflict of interest for the creator,
or
(iv) otherwise conflict with University goals or principles.
14.3.8.8 Administration of Policy. Questions of ownership or other
matters pertaining to materials covered by this policy shall be
resolved by the General Counsel.
14.3.8.9 Licensing and Income Sharing. The TLS seeks the most
effective means of technology transfer for public use and benefit and,
toward that end, is responsible for the evaluation, marketing,
negotiation and licensing of University-owned inventions or
copyrightable materials with commercial potential.   Computer
databases, software and firmware, and other copyrightable works
owned by the University, are licensed through TLS. Exceptions to
11
ch14_Intellectual-Property-&-Technology-Transfer_20160901_en_cl

this procedure must be approved in advance by the Executive Vice
President for Technology Development and Innovation.
14.3.8.10 Royalty Distribution. Royalties will normally be allocated
in accordance with the University’s policy set out in this Chapter
under Royalty Distribution & Equity Participation [link: 14.3.7.3]. If
copyright protection alone is claimed, royalties normally will be
allocated in a similar manner, with the “inventor's share” allocated
among individuals identified by the relevant faculty member (or
project head if not under a sponsored agreement), based on their
relative contributions to the work. Where royalty distribution to
individuals would be impracticable or inequitable (for example,
when the copyrightable material has been developed as a laboratory
project, or where individual royalty distribution could distort
academic priorities), the “inventor’s share” may be allocated to a
research account in the laboratory where the copyrightable material
was developed. If the inventor’s laboratory dissolved, the University
shall assign the distribution of the laboratory to the University. Such
determination will be made on a case-by-case basis by the TLS after
consultation with the faculty member or the Dean of Research , and
is subject to the approval of the Executive Vice President for
Technology Development and Innovation.
14.3.8.11 Assignments. No assignment, license or other agreement
may be entered into or will be considered valid with respect to
copyrighted works owned by the University except by an official
specifically authorized to do so.
14.3.8.12 Use of the University Name in Copyright Notices (See
Chapter 16 “External and Internal and Public Relations”[link: 16]).
No other institutional, department, laboratory, or project name is to
be used in the copyright notice, although the name and address of
the laboratory or project to which readers can direct inquiries may
be listed below the copyright notice. The date in the notice should be
the year in which the work is first published, i.e., distributed to the
public or any sizable audience. Additionally, works may be registered
with the Copyright Office using its official forms. Forms may be
obtained from the TLS, to which questions concerning copyright
notices and registration also may be addressed.

12
ch14_Intellectual-Property-&-Technology-Transfer_20160901_en_cl

14.3.8.13 Copying of Works Owned by Others. Members of the
University community are cautioned to observe the rights of other
copyright owners. Contact the Dean of the Graduate School l’s office
or the General Counsel concerning policies pertaining to copying for
classroom use. Policies regarding copying for library purposes may
be obtained from the office of the University Librarian (Chapter
6.3.4[link: 6.3.4]).
14.3.8.14 Sponsored Agreements. Contracts and grants frequently
contain complex provisions relating to copyright, rights in data,
royalties, publication and various categories of material including
proprietary data, computer software, licenses, etc. Questions
regarding the specific terms and conditions of individual contracts
and grants, or regarding rules, regulations and statutes applicable to
the various government agencies, should be addressed to the
University's Grants and Research Collaborations (GRC) [link: 2.5].
14.3.9 Rules Regarding Tangible Research Property (TRP)
The following is directed toward the administration and distribution of
Tangible Research Property (TRP) [link: 14.8.8], which is owned and/or
controlled by the University. TRP may be subject to the University’s
contractual obligations and these rules are to be interpreted and applied
consistent with and complementary to other policies affecting the
administration of tangible properties.
14.3.9.1 Ownership of TRP. TRP normally is either owned by the
University or is subject to the ownership and other provisions of
contracts and grants. For example, items such as microorganisms
produced under a government grant or contract usually belong to the
University as expendable property, subject to the terms and
conditions of the grant or contract. Equipment fabricated at the
University for subsequent off-campus use by a research sponsor (e.g.,
an instrument fabricated at the University under contract with the
sponsor) is usually owned exclusively by the sponsor.
14.3.9.2 Control of TRP. It is the responsibility of the faculty member
(or laboratory director or project head, if the TRP is not developed as
part of a Gransts and Research Collaborations project) to control the
development, storage, use, and distribution of TRP made in the
course of research activity, subject to provisions of applicable grants
or contracts and University policy. Such control includes
13
ch14_Intellectual-Property-&-Technology-Transfer_20160901_en_cl

determining if and when distribution of the TRP is to be made
beyond the laboratory for scientific use by others.
14.3.9.3 Freedom of Access. The University’s Openness in Research
Policy [link: 1.3.1], states: “... the principle of openness in research the principle of freedom of access by all interested persons to the
underlying data, to the processes, and to the final results of research
- is one of overriding importance.” Consistent with this principle, it
is the University’s policy to promote the prompt and open exchange
of TRP and associated research data with scientific colleagues
outside the investigator’s immediate laboratory.
14.3.9.4 Commercial Considerations. Because TRP may have
potential commercial value as well as scientific value, the
investigator may wish to make TRP broadly available for scientific
use by others by means that do not diminish its value or inhibit its
commercial development or public use. Although valid noncommercial reasons may exist for the temporary delay of TRP
distribution outside the laboratory for scientific use by others (e.g.,
safety factors or the need to more fully characterize the TRP prior to
distribution, etc.) scientific exchanges should not be inhibited due to
potential commercial considerations.
14.3.9.4.1 Income from TRP. TRP may not be sold for profit,
although licensing agreements, which include provision for
royalty income may be negotiated through the TLS for
commercial use of the intangible property rights associated
with the TRP. When distributing TRP to research colleagues
outside the laboratory, costs of the raw materials and
handling may be recovered from the recipient, with the
income returned to the account, which funded those costs.
14.3.9.4.2 Contractual Obligations. If any of the initial costs
were funded from sponsored agreements, the SRS should be
asked to advise on the contractual obligations regarding
distribution of the TRP and disposition of the recovered costs.
If any costs are charged for TRP distribution, adequate
documentation must be maintained for audit purposes.
14.3.9.5 TRP Procedures. The following procedures for identification
and distribution of TRP are designed to aid the traditional open
14
ch14_Intellectual-Property-&-Technology-Transfer_20160901_en_cl

distribution and exchange of TRP for research purposes, preserve the
potential commercial value of TRP, assist the further development of
TRP for public use, and protect the University and its employees
from liability claims arising from the use of University TRP by others.
14.3.9.5.1 Identification System. When public or commercial
values were identified by the above evaluation, each item of
TRP must have an unambiguous identification code and name
sufficient to distinguish it from other similar items developed
at the University or elsewhere. The TLS should be consulted
for assistance in developing appropriate identification
systems and for information regarding use of existing
University systems.
14.3.9.5.2 Ownership of Marks. Where applicable (e. g.,
computer software), each item should also carry the name of
the TRP owner and such other marks and legends as may be
required to meet the University’s contractual obligations and
administrative needs, including notice of copyright,
trademark, government rights, etc.  Information regarding
identification, marks, and legends required under research
contracts and grants can be obtained from the SRS or TLS.
14.3.9.6 Distribution of TRP for Research Purposes. Each
distribution for non-commercial research purposes should be
accompanied by a letter of transmittal which includes the following,
or equivalent, wording: 
"For OIST Graduate University records, please indicate
your agreement (1) to accept S- (insert Biological
Registry No.) to be used only for non-clinical research
by you in your research laboratory, and (2) to not
distribute S- to any other individual or entity, by
signing and returning a copy of this letter to me."
14.3.9.6.1 CAUTION: If there is a possibility of biohazard or
other risk associated with the transport, storage or use of a
particular TRP, or if the recipient is likely to use the TRP for
clinical research, the Research Safety Section should be
consulted regarding appropriate precautionary language in
the TRP distribution agreement. Alternatively, SRS can
15
ch14_Intellectual-Property-&-Technology-Transfer_20160901_en_cl

provide standard TRP distribution forms or Material Transfer
Agreement [link: ], which contain appropriate precautionary
language. (Note: For information about regulations regarding
transfer of infectious agents or recombinant DNA material,
contact
the
Research
Safety
Section
(research_safety@oist.jp[link: ]).)
14.3.9.7 TRP Software Distribution. Distribution, for research
purposes only, of computer software owned by the University may be
made without restrictions if control of subsequent use by the faculty
member is not desired. For example, a faculty member may wish
recipients to follow a specific research protocol. Any such
distribution is subject to the applicable contract or grant provisions
and an agreement by the recipient that commercial development of
the software is not to be undertaken.
14.3.9.7.1 TRP Distribution Agreement.  If software owned by
the University has commercial value or if it is considered
desirable to control subsequent use, distribution for research
purposes must be coordinated with TLS and must be
accompanied by an appropriate agreement with the recipient.
TLS will arrange for trademark and copyright registration as
needed. TLS will also provide wording for the distribution
agreement as necessary to preserve commercial value and
provide coordination with existing or prospective commercial
licensing activities.
14.3.9.7.2 TRP Contractual Obligations.   When software
results from Gransts and Research Collaborations, SRS
should be consulted regarding contractual obligations and
regulations affecting ownership, disposition of various rights,
and restrictions on the distribution and use of TRP and any
associated income with TLS support.
14.3.9.8 Other Forms of TRP. Distribution of TRP other than
biological products should normally follow the procedures outlined
above for the example of computer software.
14.3.9.9 Distribution of TRP for Commercial Purposes. If TRP
developed by the University as a result of research activities is to be
distributed to outside users for commercial purposes, the
16
ch14_Intellectual-Property-&-Technology-Transfer_20160901_en_cl

distribution agreement must contain provisions negotiated by TLS
covering the terms under which the property may be used, limits on
the University’s liability for the property or products derived
therefrom, and disposition of any royalty income to the University
from the licensing of intangible property rights associated with the
use of the tangible property.
14.3.9.10 Income Distribution. Distribution of any TRP-related
royalty income other than patent royalties will be similar to the
patent royalty income distribution policy [link: 14.3.7.3] except that
the “inventor’s share” will normally be distributed to a research
account in the laboratory which produced the TRP (subject to any
contractual obligations regarding distribution of income). Questions
regarding distribution of any royalty income to individuals should be
referred to TLS. Any distribution to individuals is subject to prior
approval of the Executive Vice President for Technology
Development and Innovation.
14.3.9.11 Contractual Obligations. If the TRP results from Gransts
and Research Collaborations, the SRS [link: 2.5] should be consulted
regarding contractual obligations and regulations affecting
ownership, notices, acknowledgments, disposition of various rights,
and restrictions on the distribution and use of the TRP and any
associated income.
14.3.10 Other Intellectual Property
14.3.10.1 Trade and Service Marks. Trade and service marks
(collectively, “marks”) are distinctive words or graphic symbols
identifying the sources, product, producer, or distributor of goods or
services. Trade or service marks relating to goods or services
distributed by the University are owned by the University; see
Chapter 15 [link: 15]. Examples include names and symbols used in
conjunction with computer programs or University activities and
events. Consult the TLS for information about registration and
protection of marks. Consult the Office of Communication & Public
Relations for information concerning the use of University marks.
14.3.10.2 Proprietary Information and Trade Secrets. Proprietary
information arising out of University work (e.g., actual and proposed
terms of research agreements, financial arrangements, or
17
ch14_Intellectual-Property-&-Technology-Transfer_20160901_en_cl

confidential business information) shall be owned by the University.
“Trade secret” is a legal term referring to any information, whether
or not copyrightable or patentable, which is not generally known or
accessible, and which gives competitive advantage to its owner.
Trade secrets are proprietary information. 
14.3.10.2.1 Any request that a University employee sign a
Nondisclosure or Confidentiality Agreement must be referred
to the General Counsel to ensure, among other things, that all
research involving proprietary information owned by others
is subject to the University’s Openness in Research Policy
[link: 1.3.1].
14.4 Responsibilities
14.4.1 The Grants and Research Collaborations
The Grants and Research Collaborations [link: 2.5] reviews terms and
conditions of the University’s grants and academic contracts for compliance
with University policies on intellectual property rights and openness in
research with TLS support.
14.4.2 The Technology Licensing Section
The Technology Licensing Section [link: 2.5] promotes the transfer of the
University’s technology and intellectual property for society’s use and benefit
while generating unrestricted income to support research and education.
TLS is responsible for the administration of the University’s invention
reporting and licensing program, the commercial evaluation of inventions,
patent-filing decisions, petitions to agencies for greater rights in inventions,
and negotiation of industrial agreements.
14.4.3 The Dean of Research and the Executive Vice President for
Technology Development and Innovation
The Dean of Research and the Executive Vice President for Technology
Development and Innovation respond to questions of ownership or similar
matters (through consultation with the SRS and the TLS); the Dean of
Research must inform faculty members of their responsibilities under this
Policy;
14.4.4 Dean of Research
The Dean of Research must inform faculty members of their responsibilities
under this Policy.
18
ch14_Intellectual-Property-&-Technology-Transfer_20160901_en_cl

14.4.5 All employees
All employees must know and comply with the requirements of this Chapter.
14.4.6 All supervisors and managers
All supervisors and managers must inform their subordinates of the
requirements of this Chapter.
14.5 Procedures
14.5.1 Faculty Grievance procedure
(Chapter 3.8[link: 3.8, Faculty Handbook])
14.5.2 Questions
contact the Dean of Research and Executive Vice President for Technology
Development and Innovation
14.6 Forms
 OIST Graduate University Patent and Copyright Agreement (PCA)
 Prior Existing and Conflicting Intellectual Property Agreement with
Another Employer (PCA2)”
 Invention Disclosure Form
 Standard TRP distribution forms
14.7 Contacts
14.7.1 Policy Owner
Executive Vice President for Technology Development and Innovation
14.7.2 Other Contacts:
Grants and Research Collaborations
Technology Licensing Section
14.8 Definitions
14.8.1 Confidentiality Obligation (also known as Nondisclosure
Agreement, Confidentiality Agreement)
A confidentiality obligation is any legal undertaking whereby one party
agrees to keep information disclosed by another party secret. The
obligation to keep disclosed information secret is typically accompanied by
an obligation to protect the disclosed information at least as stringently as
19
ch14_Intellectual-Property-&-Technology-Transfer_20160901_en_cl

the recipient protects its own confidential information and an obligation
not to use the disclosed information for any purpose other than as
permitted by the agreement signed by the recipient of the information. This
obligation is typically embodied in a written Confidentiality Agreement
(CA) or Nondisclosure Agreement (NDA). The obligation to maintain
information in confidence can take many forms and such obligations are
often found in license agreements and other legal contracts.
14.8.2 Copyrightable Works
Under the copyright law, copyright subsists in “original works of authorship”
that have been fixed in any tangible medium of expression from which they
can be perceived, reproduced, or otherwise communicated, either directly
or with the aid of a machine or device. These works typically include the full
array of literary, artistic, and musical works, pictorial and other graphic
works, dramatic works, motion pictures and other audiovisual works, and
sound recordings. Copyright protection is also available for software and
integrated circuit masks.
Except as set out otherwise in this policy (for example, with regard
to software and integrated circuit masks), the University does not
claim ownership of pedagogical, scholarly, or artistic works,
regardless of their form of expression. Such works include those of
students created in the course of their education, such as
dissertations, papers and articles. The University claims no
ownership of popular nonfiction, novels, textbooks, poems, musical
compositions, non-patentable software, or other works of artistic
imagination, which are not institutional works and which did not
make more than incidental use of University resources or the services
of University non-faculty employees working within the scope of
their employment.
14.8.3 Invention
An invention is a novel and useful idea relating to processes, machines,
manufactures, and compositions of matter. It may cover such things as new
or improved devices, systems, circuits, chemical compounds, mixtures, etc.
It is probable that an invention has been made when something new and
useful has been conceived or developed, or when unusual, unexpected, or
nonobvious results have been obtained and can be exploited. An invention
can be made solely or jointly with others as co-inventors. To be recognized
legally, a co-inventor must have conceived of an essential element of an
invention or contributed substantially to the general concept.
20
ch14_Intellectual-Property-&-Technology-Transfer_20160901_en_cl

14.8.4 Invention Disclosure
An invention disclosure is a document that provides information about
inventor(s), what was invented, circumstances leading to the invention, and
facts concerning subsequent activities. It provides the basis for a
determination of patentability and the technical information for drafting a
patent application. An invention disclosure is also used to report technology
that may not be patented but is protected by other means such as copyright
or trade secret.
14.8.5 More than Incidental Use
For purposes of this Chapter, the phrase “more than incidental use of
University resources” means use for more than a minimal amount of time
of specialized, research-related facilities, equipment or supplies, provided
by the University for academic purposes, and use of more than a minimal
amount of “on-the-job” time. The occasional and infrequent use of the
following would typically not constitute “more than incidental use of
University resources”:



Routinely available, office-type equipment, including desktop
computers and commercially-available software, and
Reference materials or other resources collected on the University
campus, and which are generally available in non-University
locations.

14.8.6 Patent
A patent is a grant issued by a national government office (usually called the
Patent Office) giving an inventor the right to exclude all others from making,
using, or selling the invention within the territory of the country, its
territories and possessions for a period of 20 years. When a patent
application is filed, the Patent Office reviews it to ascertain if the invention
is new, useful, and nonobvious and, if appropriate, grants a patent - usually
two to five years later. Not all patents are necessarily valuable or able to
withstand a challenge after being issued.
14.8.7 Public Domain
Public domain ownership means that society, as a whole, owns the item and
anyone can make free use of it for any purpose desired. Authorship doesn’t
have to be noted. A particular item enters the public domain when the
author or creator relinquishes her/his rights to the item or when a
predefined length of time has passed.
21
ch14_Intellectual-Property-&-Technology-Transfer_20160901_en_cl

14.8.8 Tangible Research Property (TRP)
TRP is defined for purposes of this Chapter as tangible (or corporeal) items
produced in the course of research projects supported by the University or
by external sponsors. TRP includes such items as: biological materials,
engineering drawings, computer software, integrated circuit chips,
computer databases, prototype devices, circuit diagrams, equipment. TRP
is separate and distinct from intangible (or intellectual) property such as
inventions, patents, copyright and trademarks which are subject to other
policies and guidelines set forth above. Individual items of TRP may be
associated with one or more intangible properties such as copyright or
patents.
14.8.9 Trade secret
“Trade secret” is a legal term referring to any information, whether or not
copyrightable or patentable, which is not generally known or accessible, and
which gives competitive advantage to its owner. Trade secrets are
proprietary information. 
14.8.10 Trademark
Trade and service marks are distinctive words or graphic symbols
identifying the sources, product, producer, or distributor of goods or
services. A service mark is the same as a trademark, except that it identifies
and distinguishes the source of a service.
14.8.11 work-for-hire
“work-for-hire” is a legal term defined generally as “a work prepared by an
employee within the scope of his or her employment.” This definition
includes works prepared by employees in satisfaction of sponsored
agreements between the University and outside agencies. Certain
commissioned works also are works for hire if the parties so agree in writing.
 The employer (i.e., the University) by law is the “author,” and hence the
owner, of works for hire for copyright purposes. Works for hire subject to
this principle include works that are developed, in whole or in part, by
University employees. For example, significant use of staff or student
employee programmers or University film production personnel will
typically result in University ownership of the copyright in the resulting
work. Where a work is jointly developed by University faculty or staff or
student employees and a third-party non-employee, the copyright in the
resulting work typically will be jointly owned by the University and the third
party. In such instances, an agreement must be executed to explicitly define
22
ch14_Intellectual-Property-&-Technology-Transfer_20160901_en_cl

the rights of both the University and the other party. If a copyright jointly
shared by the third party is expected, immediate consultation with the
General Counsel is required. Whether the University claims ownership of a
work will be determined in accordance with the provisions of this policy,
and not solely based upon whether the work constitutes a work-for-hire
under the copyright law. For example, copyright in pedagogical, scholarly
or artistic works to which the University disclaims ownership under this
policy shall be held by the creators regardless of whether the work
constitutes a work-for-hire under copyright law. University ownership in a
work-for-hire may be relinquished only by an official of the University
authorized to do so by the Board of Governors.
14.9 Appendices
(There are no appendices associated with this Chapter.)

23
ch14_Intellectual-Property-&-Technology-Transfer_20160901_en_cl

OIST Graduate University
Policies, Rules and Procedures
Authority: Approved by the President

Chapter 15. Name Use, Endorsements,
and Use of University Logo and Trademarks
15.1 Policy
The Okinawa Institute of Science & Technology Graduate University
(University) is internationally known for excellence in education, research,
and scientific and technological innovation. The University name (and
abbreviated names) and its associated marks, trademarks, logos, and symbols,
and like identifying images (collectively, the "names and marks") are
internationally recognized and represent the high caliber of our faculty,
students, and staff. The names and marks convey the quality, breadth, and
depth of the University's accomplishments. This Policy is intended to protect
the unique identification and reputation of the University.
The University is the owner of its names and marks, which are among its most
valuable assets. Faculty, students and staff share in the benefits associated
with the University's name and marks, and therefore also share
responsibilities concerning their use.
Detailed information and instructions concerning the University’s Trademark
Use Policy, and its Trademark Licensing Program, can be obtained from the
Technology Transfer Section [link: 2.5]. See also Chapter 14, Intellectual
Property and Technology Transfer [link: Chapter 14].
15.2 General Considerations
15.3 Rules
Names and marks of the University may not be used in a manner that implies
endorsement of, or affiliation with, events, activities, programs, products or
services of any entity not directly associated with, or licensed in writing by, the
University.
15.3.1 Use of Names and Marks Restricted to Official
University Business
Attaching or using the University’s names and marks in connection
with any event, activity, publication, product or service is permitted
ONLY if the event, activity, publication, product or service is one for
which the University has formally accepted institutional responsibility.

1
ch15_Name-Use-Endorsements-and-Use-of-University-Logo-and-Trademarks_20170413_en.cl

15.3.1.1 Use by University Personnel
Faculty and staff may use the University names and marks
ONLY for official University business. Faculty, faculty emeriti,
and staff members using the University name and marks in
connection with activities conducted outside of the scope of their
employment must use their exact title and must not imply that
the University endorses the product or activity.
15.3.1.1.1 Personal letters may not be written on
stationery bearing the University names and marks,
especially in matters that may involve controversy,
endorsements, or solicitations for non-University
purposes.
15.3.1.2 Use by Students
Students may identify themselves on business cards as students
of the University, provided that it is clear that they are students
and not employed by or representing the University in an official
capacity(Chapter 5[link: 5]).
Students employed by the University may also include their job
title and contact information.
Students must use a University-approved vendor to obtain
business cards, to assure conformance with University style and
format requirements. Cards made using a personal computer
must also conform to University style and format; examples are
available from the Division of Communication and Public
Relations.
15.3.1.3 Use by Student Organizations
If given permission by the Vice President for Communication
and Public Relations and the Dean of the Graduate School,
approved student organizations may be permitted to use the
University’s names and marks. Proposed uses of the University
names and marks must be submitted to the Vice President for
Communication and Public Relations for review and approval in
advance.
Only student organizations that are both University-registered
and University-sponsored may submit proposals to use the
University name and marks.

2
ch15_Name-Use-Endorsements-and-Use-of-University-Logo-and-Trademarks_20170413_en.cl

15.3.1.3.1 Voluntary student organizations (those
registered with, but not sponsored by, the University) may
refer to themselves as the "OIST Graduate University
_(insert name)__________,” but they may not use any
other University names and marks. Proposed graphics
related to use of the term “OIST Graduate University” by
voluntary student organizations must be submitted to the
Vice President for Communication and Public Relations
for approval (Chapter 16.3.1 [link: 16.3.1] ) .
15.3.1.3.2 Student organizations and entities that are not
registered with the University are prohibited from any
name association with the University.
15.3.1.3.3 No student organization may use the registered
University Seal [link: 2.7] under any circumstances nor
shall they create or use any seal bearing University names
and marks.
15.3.1.4
Use By Other Voluntary University-Affiliated
Organizations
Voluntary groups comprised of University students, employees,
families and friends that are registered with the University may
refer to themselves as the “OIST Graduate University [name of
group]” but they may not use any other University names and
marks. Proposed graphics related to use of the term “OIST
Graduate University” by such voluntary groups must be
submitted to the Vice President for Communication and Public
Relations for approval (Chapter 16.3.1 [link: 16.3.1]).
15.3.2 Tax Considerations
There is potential for generating revenue by licensing University names
and marks; this may also give rise to tax consequences. All proposed
“business plans” involving use of University names and marks must be
reviewed and coordinated with the Vice President for Financial
Management [link: 2.4.5] and the Technology Licensing Section [link:
Chapter 14] prior to detailed development or implementation of such
plans.
15.3.3 Use in Fundraising
Without exception, all fundraising activities[link: 7], whether or not
names and marks are used, must be pursued through and coordinated
with the Office of the President. Additionally, permission to use the
University’s names and marks in fundraising requires approval by the
3
ch15_Name-Use-Endorsements-and-Use-of-University-Logo-and-Trademarks_20170413_en.cl

Vice President for Communication and Public Relations in order to
ensure, among other things, conformance with University style and
format conventions [link: 16.3.1].
15.3.4 Use in Partnerships and Affiliations
A partnership or affiliation that requires the use of the University’s
names and marks as a condition of the relationship (for example,
research contracts/grants and procurement contracts/agreements),
may be construed as an endorsement or be otherwise problematic.
Such agreements must be reviewed by the Vice President for Financial
Management [link: 2.4.5] and by the Vice President for Communication
and Public Relations [link: 2.4.5] prior to execution.
15.3.4.1 This is to be distinguished from use of the University’s
names and marks for outside academic and research-related
events in which the University is a participant, affiliate, or
sponsor. Such use is a normal adjunct to the University’s
academic and research endeavors and is ordinarily appropriate
so long as the University’s graphic and stylistic standards are
met (Chapter 16.3.1 [link: 16.3.1]).
15.3.5 Use in Political Campaigns
It is forbidden to use, directly or indirectly, any name and mark of the
University in political campaigns. Questions should be directed to the
office of theDean of the Faculty Affairs ] (for academic staff) or the
office of the President [link: 2.4.1] (administrative staff).
15.3.6 Use in Endorsements
University faculty and staff are not permitted to give endorsements (a
positive evaluative statement about a product or service) on behalf of
the University. Statements made by University personnel in their
official capacity may not in any way imply University preference for or
endorsement of a particular firm, organization, product, or service.
15.3.6.1 The Vice President for Communication and Public
Relations may grant permission to use the name of the
University, but not its marks, in a statement of fact concerning a
vendor relationship and/or work performed. Examples:
“OIST Graduate University has contracted with X Company
for vehicle fleet maintenance.”
or
“X has been awarded a contract for computer peripherals by
OIST Graduate University.”

4
ch15_Name-Use-Endorsements-and-Use-of-University-Logo-and-Trademarks_20170413_en.cl

Such statements may not in any way imply University preference
for or endorsement of a particular firm, organization, product, or
service.
Example of what may not be stated:
“OIST Graduate University has contracted with X Company
for vehicle fleet maintenance because X has the best
mechanics in Okinawa.”
15.3.6.2 Personal endorsements in University publications (print
or electronic) may be permissible, as long as the author makes it
clear that such statements are personal and not the position of
the University or any of its units, and as long as no personal gain
is realized from the endorsement.
15.3.6.3 Objective factual valuations of products or services (not
an endorsement) must be accompanied by the following
disclaimer:
“The OIST Graduate University does not sponsor or endorse
the products or services described.”
15.3.7 Use in Marketing, Movies, TV, Press Releases, etc.
When University names and marks, or images of the University, are
used in association with television or radio programs, videos, movies,
events, projects, magazine shoots, and similar activities, official
University involvement is likely to be inferred. Requests to use
photographs or other images of the University, or any of its names and
marks, in advertisements or marketing materials, or in press releases,
movies or television programs, must be immediately directed to the
Vice President for Communication and Public Relations (Chapter 16
[link: 16]).
15.3.8 Reporting Suspected Misuse or Infringement
Refer to Chapter 23, Misconduct & Whistleblower Protection [link: 23],
for guidance on reporting suspected misuse, infringement, or other
similar misconduct with regard to name use, endorsements, or use of
logo and trademarks.
15.4 Responsibilities
15.4.1 All University Personnel
15.4.2 Managers and Supervisors
15.4.3 Vice President for Communication and Public Relations
5
ch15_Name-Use-Endorsements-and-Use-of-University-Logo-and-Trademarks_20170413_en.cl

15.4.4 Technology Transfer Section
15.4.5 Vice President for Financial Management

15.5 Procedures
15.6 Forms
15.7 Contacts
15.7.1 Policy Owner:
Vice President for Communication and Public Relations
15.7.2 Other Contacts:
vpcpr@oist.jp
15.8 Definitions
15.8.1 Endorsement:
A positive evaluative statement about a product or service
15.8.2 Names and Marks:
The University name (and abbreviated names) and its associated marks,
trademarks, logos, and symbols, and like identifying images, including
those that are confusingly similar to any of the above.

6
ch15_Name-Use-Endorsements-and-Use-of-University-Logo-and-Trademarks_20170413_en.cl

OIST Graduate University
Policies, Rules and Procedures
Authority: Approved by the President

Chapter 16. External and Internal Communications
& Public Relations
16.1 Policy
As a publicly funded university, OIST Graduate University (University) has a
responsibility to provide timely, accurate, clear, objective, and complete information
about its projects, plans, and activities. In the modern era when news, good and bad,
true or false, can be relayed around the globe almost instantly, it is important to have
guidelines for faculty, students and staff who deliver University-related information to
the media and the general public. The University’s Division of Communication &
Public Relations (the Communications Division) offers support to ensure that key
messages are clear and consistent and information is accurate and complete. The
Communication Division does not intend to police communications or to restrict
anyone from sharing their expertise.
16.1.1 The Communication Division is responsible for overseeing and
approving use of the University’s names and marks (as defined in Chapter
15)., trademarks, logos, and other symbols (together referred to as “names and
marks”) and for ensuring stylistic and graphic conformance to the University’s
standards with regard to use of the University’s names and marks [link: 15].
16.2 General Considerations
16.2.1 The Vice President for Communication & Public Relations, as a matter
of policy, is the spokesperson for the University unless otherwise instructed by
the President.
16.2.1.1 The Communication Division is the approver of all uses of
the University’s names and marks.
16.2.1.2 Regulatory and other governmental communications are
handled by the Chief Operating Officer (hereinafter referred to as
“COO”) [link: 2.4.6.2], and not the Communication Division.
16.2.2 The Communication Division manages the calendaring, space
reservation, and logistics of events and activities at the University; for details
see Chapter 19, University Events [link: 19].
1
ch16_external-internal-communications-and-public-relations_en_20180401_cl

16.2.3 The Communication and Public Relations Division provides digital
copies of university corporate publications to the Library when the Vice
President for Communication and Public Relations decides that they are
suitable to be deposited in Okinawa Institute of Science and Technology
Graduate University Institutional Repository ("OISTIR") for open access. For
details, see 6.2.2[link: 6.2.2], The Okinawa Institute of Science and
Technology Graduate University Institutional Repository.
16.3 Rules
16.3.1 Use of the University Names and Marks
Names and marks of the University [link: 15] must be depicted in
conformance with the University’s stylistic and graphic standards [link:
http://iweb.oist.jp/dnnoist/OISTLogo/tabid/453/Default.aspx].
All proposed uses of names and marks, whether internal or external, must be
submitted to the Communication Division for approval.
16.3.2 Internal Communications
Excellent internal communication is essential for the efficiency and morale of
the University and communication initiatives are encouraged. To maintain
consistency, initiatives should be developed in collaboration with the
Communication Division. This includes websites, posters, printed materials,
etc.
16.3.2.1 All internal communication platforms (websites, bulletin
boards, printed communications, etc.) must adhere to the University’s
graphic
standards
[link:
http://iweb.oist.jp/dnnoist/OISTLogo/tabid/453/Default.aspx].
16.3.2.1.1 Excepted from this requirement are working
collaborative sub-sites, such as experimental data bases,
devoted to active development of areas of research.
16.3.3 Contacts with Media
All individuals must contact the Communication Division immediately
whenever they receive a request from the media that relates to the University
or their affiliation with the University.
16.3.3.1 With regard to subjects (and developments) that relate to their
affiliation with the University, faculty, students and staff should inform
and consult with the Communication Division before initiating contact
with the media.

2
ch16_external-internal-communications-and-public-relations_en_20180401_cl

16.3.3.2 In the event of unpremeditated spontaneous media contact
(e.g., at a conference, meeting, or similar event), the individual who
was involved in the media contact should inform the Communications
Division of the exchange as soon as possible.
16.3.4 Websites
All University websites must conform to the graphic standards of the
University and be approved by the Communications Division. They must
also conform to the requirements established for use of University IT [link:
17].
16.3.4.1 Researchers may host separate personal sites on a University
webserver that do not necessarily conform to the style and graphics
standards, but the Communication Division will not provide support.
Content of personal webpages hosted on University servers must
observe the principles set out in the University’s Code of Conduct and
other core values [link: 1].
16.3.5 Social Media
The University recognizes blogs, networking sites, and other social media as
possible tools to support the University’s educational and operational goals.
Individuals are responsible for the content they publish on social media and
should use good judgment. Staff should be mindful that the things they say or
do on social media are publically available and searchable and may be forever
accessible. Comments, expressions, and other postings on social media must
be non-libelous, honest and respectful of others. They must respect
confidential, personal, and proprietary information; comply with applicable
law; comply with University requirements concerning use of IT [link: 17]; and
adhere to the Code of Conduct and core values of the University [link: 1].
16.3.6 Use of the University Names and Marks by Third Parties
Requests for use of University names and marks, and requests for
endorsements by the University from external individuals, companies,
organizations, educational establishments, etc., must be referred to the
Communication Division (Chapter 15)[link: 15]. The Communication
Division has the right of final approval of all texts and images including
photos concerning the University proposed by third parties.
16.3.7 OIST clubs
OIST clubs can cover a wide range of interests including sports, arts and
crafts, culture, technical and scientific activities.
16.3.7.1 Clubs Role
3
ch16_external-internal-communications-and-public-relations_en_20180401_cl

OIST clubs promote communication within OIST bringing together
people of very different professions and cultural backgrounds.
In addition OIST clubs help integrate newcomers and their families
both with the local population and with the OIST community.
16.3.7.2 Membership of OIST Clubs
Clubs are open to all OIST staff, students and members of the local
community. The President of a club must be an OIST employee or
student.
16.3.7.3 OIST Support of Clubs
OIST clubs should be self-financing through membership fees and
fund raising activities. However in exceptional circumstances a club
can ask for financial support from the OIST administration. Such
circumstances could be expenses for the setting up of a club and
buying essential equipment.
16.3.7.4 OIST Clubs Steering Group
The group decides on the suitability and financial viability of proposed
clubs and give recommendations to the OIST Executive on possible
funding. The group is composed of a representative from the
Administration, the Graduate School and the Research sector. The
Chair is the VP for Communications.
16.3.7.5 Creating a Club
Application to set up an OIST club should be presented to the OIST
Club Steering Group. The application should explain the purpose of
the club, equipment and location needs, a financial model, safety and
insurance aspects, the name of the President
16.3.7.6 Logo Use
Use of OIST logo on clubs material or sporting kit must adhere to the
University Graphics Standard Manual.
16.3.7.7 Club Restrictions
OIST does not support political or religious clubs. Clubs must adhere
to university policies, rules and procedures.
16.3.7.8 Club Web Site
A web site is mandatory for each club explaining the activities, the
club officials and a sign up form. The sites are hosted on the OIST
groups server.
16.3.7.8.9 OIST Facilities
4
ch16_external-internal-communications-and-public-relations_en_20180401_cl

OIST clubs can use university facilities, such as meeting rooms, free of
charge. However priority will always be given to academic use.

16.4 Responsibilities
16.4.1 Managers and faculty
Managers and faculty are to inform their personnel about the procedures
relating to Media contacts, logo usage and endorsement requests.
16.4.2 All individuals
All individuals must respect the guidelines established in the OIST Graduate
University
Graphics
Standards
Manual
[link:
http://iweb.oist.jp/dnnoist/OISTLogo/tabid/453/Default.aspx].
16.4.3 All students, faculty, and staff
All students, faculty, and staff must comply with the requirements of this
Chapter.
16.5 Procedures
16.5.1 How to submit proposed depictions of names and marks
email: vpcpr@oist.jp
16.5.2 How to develop Internal communication initiatives in collaboration
with the Communication Division.
email: vpcpr@oist.jp
16.5.3 What to do when contacted by the Media.
email: vpcpr@oist.jp
16.5.4 What to do before contacting media.
email: vpcpr@oist.jp
(Chapter 16.3.3[link: 16.3.3])
16.5.5 How to request logo or name use or endorsement by outside
entities.
email: vpcpr@oist.jp

16.6 Forms
There are no forms associated with this chapter.
5
ch16_external-internal-communications-and-public-relations_en_20180401_cl

16.7 Contacts
16.7.1 Policy Owner:
The Vice President for Communication and Public Relations
16.7.2 Other Contacts:
vpcpr@oist.jp
16.8 Definitions
16.8.1 Media
Any means of communication having wide dissemination or influence, such as
radio and television, internet, newspapers, and magazines.
16.8.2 Public Relations
The professional development of a favorable public image by the OIST
Graduate University.
16.8.3 Social media
Online, electronic, or Internet media, tools, communities, and spaces for social
interaction, sharing user generated content, or public or semi-public
communication. Social media typically uses web-based technologies to turn
communication into interactive dialogues. Social media can take many
different forms, including internet forums, blogs & microblogs, online
profiles, wikis, podcasts, pictures and video, email, text, instant messaging.
Examples of social media include but are not limited to the following:
LinkedIn, Facebook, MySpace, Wikipedia, YouTube, Twitter, Skype and
blogs.

6
ch16_external-internal-communications-and-public-relations_en_20180401_cl

OIST Graduate University
Policies, Rules & Procedures
Authority: Approved by the President

Chapter 17. Information Technology and Security
17.1 Policy
This policy is in place to ensure that OIST Information Technology Resources (IT
resources) [link: 17.8.1] are provisioned and used in an effective, efficient, prudent
and responsible manner [link: 21.3.2], in line with the missions of the University
and in compliance with relevant legal and contractual obligations. All users are
expected to be familiar with these policies, rules and procedures and consequences
of violation.
All University information is deemed to comprise University information assets
[link: 17.8.2]. The University owns and controls its information assets. Appropriate
handling of information assets is vital to the protection of OIST and its community,
all users are responsible in this regard.
Though the University takes reasonable security measures to protect the security
of its IT resources, the University does not guarantee absolute security nor privacy.
The University has the right to monitor any and all IT Resources and their usage,
including e-mail, without limitation. The University is responsible for taking any
measures necessary to ensure the security and integrity of its IT Resources. When
it becomes aware of violations of policy or law, either through routine system
administration activities or via incident notification, it is the responsibility of the
University to investigate as needed or directed, and take action to protect its
resources and/or to provide information relevant to an investigation.
OIST has an obligation to preserve Information Assets for archival and reporting
purposes. Additionally, upon direction from the President or General Counsel and
upon consent of Chief Information Officer (CIO) [link: 2.4.1.3, 17.4.5] and Chief
Information Security Manager (CISM) [link: 17.4.6], Information Assets may
sometimes be preserved for prescribed periods of time for litigation or other legal
purposes.
IT Resources are not to be used for personal or private purposes unrelated to the
mission of the University. However, incidental personal use is permitted so long as
such use does not interfere or conflict with the employee’s work responsibilities or
other obligations to the University, and does not generate additional direct cost to
the University. Users are responsible for the content of their personal
communications. The University accepts no responsibility or liability for
unauthorized use of its IT resources in a manner which does not comply with policy
or law.
17.2 General Considerations
1
ch17_information-technology-&-security_en_20180401_cl

17.2.1 Scope
These policies, rules and procedures are applicable to all users [link: 17.8.11].
In particular, all users are subject to the requirements as set out under
“User’s Rights and Responsibilities” [link: 17.4.2] and the “OIST Graduate
University IT Acceptable Use Policy” [link: 17.6.1].
In accessing, storing or transmitting University Information all IT Assets
become subject to these policies [link: 17.8.3]. This includes personal
devices, devices wholly or partially owned by the University, and devices
from external organizations or entities.
17.2.2 Ownership of Information Assets
The University owns and controls its information assets [link: 17.8.2]. The
University assigns responsibility for managing and protecting its
Information Assets, and ensuring compliance with policy and law, to
Information Asset Managers [link: 17.4.8] and Information Asset
Administrators [link: 17.4.9].
Within research units the Faculty [link: 17.4.3] serves as Information Asset
Manager, and may assign the Information Asset Administrator role to a unit
member. Ensuring appropriate management and security schemes for
unpublished research data is the prerogative of the faculty, whom must also
take into account any pre-existing official agreements that would require
additional security or protection of information assets. Note that a primary
copy of all research data should remain on OIST managed repositories at all
times.
Within Divisions the Vice-President [link: 17.4.4] services as Information
Asset Manager, and may assign the Information Asset Administrator role to
one or more Section members.
Corporate Documents and Personal Information are a sub-set of
Information Assets, but have additional legal and policy requirements, such
as “Public Document Policy Act” and “Law concerning Access to Personal
Information Held by Independent Administrative Institutions”, associated
with their handling. These requirements as well as separate management
and administration roles are detailed here [link: 12].
Intellectual property, institutional agreements, or other contractual
requirements upon the University may modify the ownership and treatment
of information assets, these are covered under PRP Chapter 4 [link: 4] and
Chapter 14[link: 14].
17.2.3 Principles of Information Technology Management
2
ch17_information-technology-&-security_en_20180401_cl

Wherever possible University IT resources are to be provisioned in
alignment with industry best practice. To this end the ITSM framework is
employed to provide a structure in which to describe and specify IT services
[link: 17.8.5].
Core to the ITSM framework is the concept of a Service Level Agreement
(SLA) [link: 17.8.6], which acts to provide clear expectations in the scope,
timeliness and quality of IT services between IT Division and the University.
This SLA must be drafted in conjunction with stake holders from all areas
of the University. This SLA must be deliberated upon and approved by stake
holders from all areas of the University, via the IT Service and Support
Committee.
17.2.4 Principles of Information Security
The purpose of information security [link: 17.8.7] is to protect Information
Assets from unauthorized access or damage, and ensure accordance with all
applicable laws, regulations and compliance requirements [link: 17.8.8].
17.2.5 Further Policies Rules and Procedures
Research units, Divisions or Sections within the University may impose
additional conditions of use upon IT Resources or facilities under their
control. Such conditions must be consistent with this overall policy. They
may provide additional detail, guidelines or greater restrictions. They may
not provide lesser restrictions.
17.2.6 Communications and Public Relations
Other standards and rules developed by the Vice President for
Communication and Public Relations apply to use of University IT with
regard to e-mail, websites, and social media; compliance with those
standards and rules is mandatory [link: 16.3].
17.2.7 Students
Students should refer to the Graduate School Handbook in addition to
familiarizing themselves with this chapter [link: 5].
17.2.8 General Conduct
Beyond the policies and procedures regarding usage of the IT Resources as
detailed herein, all users are expected to exercise sound judgment, and in
situations where policy or procedure is unclear are expected to contact IT
Division or the relevant party to seek clarification.
17.2.9 Compliance
3
ch17_information-technology-&-security_en_20180401_cl

Any breach of information security, or misuse of IT Resources is regarded
as serious. Breaches may result in disciplinary action, up to and including
dismissal and legal action.
17.3 Rules
17.3.1 Authorization and Access
All access to, and usage of IT resources must be appropriately requested,
approved, registered and audited. A user is defined as any individual or
entity granted access to OIST information assets to a level above public
classification [link: 17.8.9], or to IT resources above that available to the
general public.
Users are responsible for protecting their account information by ensuring
that their login, password and other access credentials remain secure at all
times. The sharing of account information or passwords is not permitted,
and may only be known to, and used by the individual assigned them.
In using these resources, users agree to abide by all relevant University
policies, rules, procedures and applicable law. Users must acknowledge this
understanding by reading and signing the OIST Graduate University
Acceptable Use Policy, via physical signature or digital equivalent [link:
17.6.1].
17.3.1.1 Account Creation
User accounts will be created via the following process:
 Onboarding into the University via the process relevant to the
user’s classification, resulting in registration into the OIST
Identity Management System [link:17.8.17]
 Acknowledgement by signature (or digital equivalent) of the OIST
Graduate University Acceptable Use Policy [link: 17.6.1]
 Supervisors’ advance authorization to access any IT resources
beyond those allocated by default
 Authorization by the relevant Information Asset Manager [link:
17.4.8, 17.4.7] or Information Asset Administrator [link: 17.4.9,
17.8.13] to access any Information Assets managed locally
17.3.1.2 Account Extension
Requests for extension of access shall be made with valid justification,
via the process relevant to the user’s classification. Extension
processes will include at least a minimum of supervisors’ approval,
and any further approvals as required.
4
ch17_information-technology-&-security_en_20180401_cl

17.3.1.3 Account Expiry, Deactivation and Deletion
Accounts will be automatically deactivated upon expiry of a user’s
term at the University unless extended as described above.
Systems administrators must deactivate invalid accounts when
found, or as instructed by the CIO, CISM or legal counsel, and report
the event to CIO and CISM.
17.3.1.4 Access Rights
Should users change roles or responsibilities, supervisors are
responsible for ensuring updated access rights are communicated to
IT Division, and any relevant Information Asset Managers [link:
17.4.8]. Information Asset Managers are responsible for ensuring
that access rights are updated appropriately.
17.3.1.5 Privileged Users/Systems Administrators
Any user granted escalated privileges [link: 17.8.14] must use them
only when required to do so in order to conduct OIST business.
System access events of users possessing escalated privileges are to
be recorded and monitored at all times.
17.3.1.6 Shared Accounts
Shared accounts are not in principal permitted, exceptions may be
made at the discretion of the system administrators, with
concurrence of the CIO or CISM.
17.3.1.7 Unauthorized Access
All users, including system administrators, must
unauthorized access to the CISM immediately if suspected.

report

17.3.2 Bring Your Own Device (BYOD)
The University does not require personnel to use their personal resources
to conduct University business.
Within the administration, the usage of personal IT assets to conduct OIST
business is permitted only with the authorization of IT Division.
Within research units, the faculty may choose to permit the use of BYOD
devices, and users may elect to use their own resources accordingly, though
at no time should any user be compelled to do so. The University accepts no
responsibility or liability for damage to BYOD devices. The faculty and asset
owner are accountable for any and all issues arising from the usage of such
personal assets.
5
ch17_information-technology-&-security_en_20180401_cl

Note that in connecting a personal IT asset to the OIST network (BYOD), or
using a personal asset to store or transmit University Information, the asset
is then subject to this policy and must comply with all OIST requirements.
In the case of BYOD devices, eligibility to store OIST information assets may
vary. Users are required to ensure that OIST information assets, the devices
used to access them, and the mode of access conform to OIST information
classification and device eligibility criteria [link: 17.8.9].
17.3.3 Connecting to the OIST Network
The OIST network is an essential research resource, maintaining its
availability and security is vital to the function of the University and is the
responsibility of all users. All IT assets connecting to the OIST network must
do so via OIST network authentication, uniquely identifying the active user.
Users may only connect OIST IT assets for which they have authorization to
use to the OIST network, and only for their own use. The connection of
assets to the OIST network for the use of other users, or third parties is
strictly prohibited.
Where network authentication poses a barrier to research or OIST business,
users must contact IT Division to seek an exception. The connection of any
devices that would bypass or mitigate network authentication, or enable
other devices to do so, is strictly prohibited.
In order to ensure the security and stability of the OIST network, the
connection of network devices, such as switches, routers or hubs without
the authorization of IT Division is strictly prohibited. The usage of any
wireless networks other than those provided by IT Division within OIST
facilities without prior permission of IT Division is not permitted. Any
unauthorized devices found to be connected to the OIST network, or
providing wireless networking within OIST facilities may be disconnected
without notice.
17.3.4 Procurement, Outsourcing and IT Assets
OIST IT Asset purchases must be fit for purpose. They must also be
procured, audited, re-used and disposed of appropriately. In addition to
University procurement policy, rules and procedures [link: 28], the
purchase of IT Assets are also subject to the rules herein.
Regardless of procurement path or budget, all IT assets procured, donated
to or otherwise received by OIST must be physically inspected by IT Division
6
ch17_information-technology-&-security_en_20180401_cl

staff upon receipt. This inspection will include indelible asset marking
(exceptions to which must be approved by CIO), and registration into the
Configuration Management System (CMDB) [link: 17.8.32] to allow for the
efficient tracking and auditing of assets.
Exemptions may exist where the IT asset is an integral part of a larger
research device or apparatus, i.e. a control PC bundled with a microscope.
In this case the party receiving the asset is to coordinate with IT Division.
Consultation with IT Division is required before the purchase of any IT asset
intended to be housed in IT Division facilities (server rooms, network
spaces etc.) [link: 17.3.30].
17.3.4.1 Procurement of IT Assets within the Administration
Within the administration, including the Research Support Division,
the procurement or upgrade of any IT asset (including any software
procurement with a price above a 10,000yen) must be conducted via
IT Division. This is to ensure standardization where applicable, and
to ensure the devices are purchased in an efficient fashion. The
procedure for requesting the purchase or upgrade of an IT device
within the administration is detailed at PRP 17.5.1[link: 17.5.1].
All IT assets within the administration fall under control of the IT
Division, and are subject to this policy regardless of how they were
acquired or funds used to purchase them.
17.3.4.2 Procurement of IT Assets within Research Units
Research units are strongly encouraged to consult with IT Division
before purchasing any IT asset. Where the research unit elects to
purchase without consultation, the level of support IT Division can
deliver to the IT asset may be limited. Connectivity with OIST
networks is not guaranteed in this case. The support levels available
to the various device categories are detailed in the SLA [link: 17.8.6].
The procurement process for IT assets within research units is
covered under PRP 17.5.3[link: 17.5.3].
IT assets to be procured as part of a larger research equipment
purchase, or to be attached to research equipment should be
specified with thought to reliability and performance. The reliability
of these assets has substantial impact on the productivity of critical
research equipment. Guidelines for specifying these purchases are
7
ch17_information-technology-&-security_en_20180401_cl

part of the process for procurement of IT assets within research units
[link: 17.5.3].
17.3.4.3 Procurement of IT Assets via Corporate Credit Card
The purchase of IT assets using corporate credit card (P-Card) is
restricted, please see PRP 26.3.7[link: 26.3.7]. The purchase of IT
assets from online vendors can only be conducted via IT Division.
17.3.4.4 IT Asset Tracking
All IT assets which are wholly or partially owned by the university are
to have the OIST asset tracking agent installed. This agent allows for
the dynamic audit of IT assets, resulting in substantial savings in
costs and personnel time during mandatory yearly asset audits. This
requirement is mandatory for all assets in the administration, and
strongly advised for assets within research units.
17.3.4.5 IT Asset Transfer
The transfer of usage or ownership of any IT device, including
between users, sections or research units, must be conducted via IT
Division. In this way the asset register and CMDB is kept up to date,
and data in the devices is securely erased [link: 17.8.21] prior to
transfer to prevent breaches in security or personal information
protection. The process for transferring an asset between users or
sections and units is described at PRP 17.5.5 [link: 17.5.5].
17.3.4.6 IT Assets Outside of OIST Premises
Where any IT asset is to be taken off-site, including for the purposes
of business trips or working from home, prior authorization must be
given by IT Division. In the case of laptops and mobile devices this
authorization is normally incorporated into the agreement signed by
the user upon physical issuance of the device [link: 17.5.4].
17.3.4.7 IT Asset Disposal
The disposal of all OIST IT assets must be conducted via IT Division,
regardless of how they were acquired or the nature of the funds used
to purchase them or if they are partially or wholly owned by OIST.
17.3.4.8 IT Asset Theft, Loss or Damage
Users must report the loss, theft or damage of any IT Asset to the IT
Helpdesk promptly [link: 26.3.3].

8
ch17_information-technology-&-security_en_20180401_cl

17.3.5 Enterprise Applications
An enterprise application is defined as any administrative system key in
conducting University business. The functionality and quality of these
systems can have substantial impact on University business productivity.
The design and implementation of such system must be performed with due
diligence, in consultation with the Enterprise Application Services Team
(EAS), and via the mandatory process detailed at PRP 17.5.7 [link: 17.5.7].
17.3.6 Outsourcing of IT Services
Where contracting with an external party to provide a service or system that
will store, transmit or receive OIST information assets, additional
consideration must be given to the factors below. This is atop the
procurement processes as detailed in PRP Chapter 28[link: 28], and the
enterprise application review process [link: 17.3.5].
 A service level agreement (SLA) between OIST and the service provider.
 A non-disclosure agreement and other restrictions preventing the
utilization of OIST Information assets for purposes other than those
intended.
 The maturity of information security process within the service provider.
Management structures within the service provider and its infrastructure
which will protect OIST information assets from unintended changes by
third parties, including subcontractors.
 OIST’s right to audit the service provider’s compliance with the
contractual and security requirements.
 Regular monitoring and reporting to OIST on information security
performance.
17.3.7 Outsourcing and Information Security
Where the operation or maintenance of a system or service is outsourced,
the system owner shall be responsible for monitoring compliance with OIST
information security requirements, reporting any discrepancies to the CISM.
In the case of information security incident or misuse of the system, the
system owner or CISM may suspend the outsourced service. The procedure
for the suspension of service, and correct allocation of authorizations to
allow this shall be granted to the CISM by the system owner.
The system owner shall ensure that all information assets handed over to
the outsourcer during the course of the contract are duly retrieved or
destroyed at the appropriate point on or before termination of the contract.

9
ch17_information-technology-&-security_en_20180401_cl

Where the operation or maintenance of a system or service is outsourced,
those matters stipulated in OIST Guidelines for Personal Information
Protection [link: 12.3.8] must be adhered to.
17.3.8 Software and licensing
IT Division provides a wide range of research and business software to OIST
users. Users are encouraged to use these software, but must respect
copyright law and licensing restrictions at all times.
Software titles held by IT Division are in general only eligible for installation
onto IT assets wholly owned by the University, users must not install
software onto an IT asset without first confirming the IT asset is eligible.
Details of available software and licensing restrictions are covered as part
of the software catalog [link: 17.8.33].
Within the administration the use of software outside the software catalog
is not permitted. Where additional software is required, users must contact
IT Division to request an addition to the catalog.
Within research units the use of software outside the software catalog is
permitted, though consideration must be given to security. In using
software outside the software catalog users should:
 Ensure the software has been downloaded from known reputable sources,
such as the official website
 Ensure security patches are applied
17.3.8.1 Licensed or commercial software
IT Division manages all commercial or licensed software within the
administration, and many of the research software titles. Research
units are strongly encouraged to contact IT Division before
purchasing additional software. If there is general and continuing
interest in a software product not yet offered in the software catalog,
IT Division will research the request to see if we can negotiate an
agreement that will best benefit the University.
17.3.8.2 Open-source software and freeware
Within research units users are encouraged to use open source
software and freeware, but are also encouraged to consult with IT
Division. Where there is a continuing interest in a software title IT
Division will package the software, manage updates and monitor
10
ch17_information-technology-&-security_en_20180401_cl

security alerts and issues.
17.3.9 Information Asset classification
Information Asset manager shall assign information assets into one of the
four classifications listed below, based upon determined value,
confidentiality, integrity and availability. Where information assets with
different levels of classification are grouped together, the highest
classification shall be applied.
Further guidance on the handling of information assets is detailed under
PRP 17.8.9 “information classification and device eligibility” [link: 17.8.9].
17.3.9.1 Public
Information assets assigned the ‘Public’ classification should either
be by their nature a matter of public record, or have been deemed
safe to be publicly disclosed or to provide positive or neutral impact
to OIST business, reputation or personnel.
17.3.9.2 Internal
Information assets to be assigned the ‘Internal’ classification are
those for which disclosure is not appropriate, and may result in a
moderate negative impact to OIST business, reputation or personnel.
These assets are to be made accessible to OIST users on a need to
know basis. Unpublished research data or papers are in general
deemed to fall under this classification.
Third parties may be granted access to information assets with an
‘Internal’ classification where a business need exists.
This classification should be regarded as the default for OIST
information assets.
17.3.9.3 Confidential
Information assets assigned the ‘Confidential’ classification are those
for which disclosure would result in significant negative impact to
OIST business, reputation or personnel. This classification includes
information assets subject to protection under law or government
regulation, including but not limited to personal information such as
My Number, credit card and passport information. These assets are
to be made accessible only to small restricted groups of users by
Information Asset Managers, on a need to know basis. Access is to be
regularly audited.
11
ch17_information-technology-&-security_en_20180401_cl

17.3.9.4 Critical
Information assets assigned the ‘Critical’ classification are those for
which disclosure would result in severe negative impact to OIST
business, reputation or personnel. Access to ’Critical’ information
assets shall be granted only to small, tightly restricted groups of
authorized users. The strict system access and data access controls
must
be
applied,
and
access
audited
regularly.
Information assets can only be assigned the ’Critical’ classification
upon approval by the Provost or the Chief Operating Officer (COO).
17.3.10 Protection of Information Assets
In ensuring the basic protection of OIST information assets, users must
handle Information Assets in a manner appropriate to the information
classification they have been assigned. The security level of the devices used
to access information assets and the mode of access must be commensurate
with the sensitivity of the asset and conform to OIST information
classification and device eligibility criteria [link: 17.8.9].
OIST information assets are to be used for business purposes only, users
shall not use OIST information assets for any purpose other than the task
for which they are intended. Access to Information Assets must be granted
on a “need to know” basis, where required for a user to complete their duties,
and in line with business needs.
The protection of personal information is further restricted by the
regulations as detailed in [link: 12.3.8]. All users which will deal with
personal information must familiarize themselves with, and remain abreast
of changes to these rules.
17.3.11 Information Security
Compliance with information security policy is vital to ensuring the security
of OIST information assets, and is the responsibility of all users. In
protecting the university and its information assets users must comply with
the rules herein when creating, processing or storing information.
In supporting the CISM to protect the interests of the University, systems
administrators shall comply with all rules detailed herein, and comply
promptly with directives from the CISM when given.
17.3.12 Information Security Incident Response
12
ch17_information-technology-&-security_en_20180401_cl

Information security incidents [link: 17.8.35] are defined as a single or
series of unwanted events that compromise (or are likely to compromise)
the confidentiality, integrity or availability of OIST Information assets
and/or breach OIST rule or Japanese law.
Security Incident Response differs from Data Forensics [link: 17.3.13] in
that it is triggered by notifications or events, and that only the result of the
investigation is disclosed beyond the IT personnel tasked with investigating
it, no data is disclosed. The CIO and CISM are responsible for investigating
security incidents, and to take all necessary actions in order to protect OIST
and its resources and/or to provide information relevant to an investigation.
In this regard the Chief Information Officer (CIO) [link: 17.4.5], Chief
Information Security Manager (CISM) [link: 17.4.6] and Networking and
Telecommunications Manager (NTM) [link: 17.4.7] have specific rights and
responsibilities.
Any user who becomes aware of an information security incident must
immediately contact CIO and CISM via e-mail cio@oist.jp cism@oist.jp), or
by phone (see the OIST directory, https://directory.oist.jp).
Please see the Information Security Incident Response Procedures for more
details [link: 17.5.8].
17.3.13 Data Forensics
Data forensics is the practice of identifying, extracting and examining data
in response to incidents. This may include data held in on IT assets, e-mail,
SharePoint, or any other digital repositories.
Data forensics are routinely performed after consultation with and consent
from the owner of the data. In cases where the data owner does not consent,
or where legal or other requirements prevent seeking the consent of the data
owner, the approval of the President is required.
The incidents triggering data forensics, along with the data and IT assets
involved, are often sensitive or confidential in nature. The purpose of the
Data Forensics Procedure is to ensure that data forensics activities are
conducted appropriately. The procedure requires that appropriate
approvals take place, that the privileges of the parties involved are
segregated, and that access to data is limited to only that relevant to the
incident.
Request
13
ch17_information-technology-&-security_en_20180401_cl

The data forensics investigation request form is completed by the individual
tasked with performing the examination of the data (the investigator), or
responsible for the transfer of custody of the data in cases involving the
police. The request for details;
 The reasoning behind the request
 The data to be targeted as part of the request
 The duration for which access to the data will be required
Approval
The form must be approved by one of the Vice-Presidents, Deans or General
Counsel, and either the data owner or the President.
Verification
The CIO or delegated representative will receive the request and verify that
appropriate approvals have been given. They will then appoint a member of
IT to extract the relevant data.
Extraction
The member of IT Division performing the investigation will extract a data
to an encrypted, dedicated temporary PC, and give custody to the CIO or
delegated representative.
Access
The CIO or delegated representative will then give custody of the temporary
PC and associated access credentials to the investigator.
Deletion
Once the access duration period has expired, the CIO will ensure the
temporary PC is returned and all extracted data is securely erased.
Reporting
The CIO will prepare and send a final report to the President which describe
the result of the data forensics activity, and confirms the date of deletion of
the data extracted.
Filing
The request form will be filed within IT, along with the final report.
Responses to IT security incidents are not covered here, and are instead
covered under PRP 17.3.12, Information Security Incident Response [link:
14
ch17_information-technology-&-security_en_20180401_cl

17.3.12].
17.3.14 IT Asset Removal
IT Asset Removal is the temporary removal and retention of an IT asset in
response to an incident. This may include the removal and retention of
laptops, desktops, mobile drives or any other IT asset. IT assets are often
critical to business functions, as such their removal is not routine, and must
be appropriately requested and approved as described below.
IT assets can be removed and retained upon request by of one of the
President, General Counsel, Provost, COO, Dean of Research, or Dean of
faculty Affairs, with the concurrence of the CIO. The CIO will notify the asset
owner of the device removal, and delegate a member of IT Division to
remove and retain the IT asset within secure IT facilities. The removal of the
IT asset may precede the notification to the asset owner where legal or other
requirements prevent advance notification.
Access to data held on IT assets, including those that have been removed
and retained, is subject to the Data Forensics Procedure [link: 17.3.13].
Responses to IT security incidents are not covered here, and are instead
covered under PRP 17.3.12, Information Security Incident Response [link:
17.3.12].
17.3.15 Labeling
Information assets must have their document classification clearly marked
on the cover page, footer, header or watermark regardless of format.
Including but not limited to, printed, handwritten, or electronic documents
and records, e-mail contents or subject.
The internal classification may be omitted as it is the default classification.
17.3.16 Copying
Users and Document Management Administrators [link: 12.3.4.3.2] shall
keep the number of copies of confidential information, in any combinations
of media or format, at the minimum required. Where necessary, they shall
also keep a record of their distribution. Users shall keep all hard copies or
storage media in physically secured storage, such as a locked drawer or
filing cabinet. Users shall securely dispose of copies when they are no longer
required.
Where information is replicated, the original classification is inherited.
Users must evaluate the requirements of integrity and availability against
15
ch17_information-technology-&-security_en_20180401_cl

security when creating or replicating information.
17.3.17 E-mail
Users are responsible for ensuring that information exchanged via e-mail is
protected to a level commensurate with the classification of the information.
When exchanging information with a classification of ‘confidential’ or
higher, strong data encryption must be applied.
The transfer via e-mail of payment information (such as credit card
numbers, bank account details), Individual Numbers (My Number),
passport information or other personal information is strictly prohibited
unless the data is first encrypted.
Refer to the Information Security site for further guidance on managing the
risks associated with the use of e-mail. Information Security Site
All administrative employees, and research support employees shall use
only the OIST provided e-mail system. The forwarding OIST e-mail to an
external e-mail service provider, or access to OIST e-mail servers from
external providers is not permitted.
17.3.18 Prevention of information leakage or manipulation in
transit
Users shall apply security controls when transmitting data of ‘confidential’
or higher classification to external parties.
 Such data must be encrypted prior to transmission
 Encrypted data and password should be transmitted separately, ideally
via different mechanisms.
 The use of multiple entity protection is encouraged.
17.3.19 Use of removable media
The following restrictions apply to removable media devices, including but
not limited to USB thumb drives, mobile hard drives, SD cards and any
other transportable or mobile storage technologies:
 Within the administration, the use of removable media is prohibited,
repositories provided by IT Division are to be used. Contact IT Division
to seek exception from the CISM or CIO.
 Within research units, the use of removable media to store ‘Confidential’
and ‘Critical’ information is at the discretion of the faculty.
Refer Information Security site for further guidance on managing the risks
associated with the use of removable media [link: 17.8.20] Information
16
ch17_information-technology-&-security_en_20180401_cl

Security Site
17.3.20 Remote access
When accessing OIST IT resources from outside the OIST network, users
must first obtain advance permission from IT Division, and access resources
only via approved OIST IT remote access services (VPN, SSH, etc.)
The use of any non-OIST managed remote access software or services, such
as Team viewer, to provide external access to OIST IT resources is
prohibited. Exceptions may be granted by the CIO or CISM where network
security has been enhanced, users must contact IT Division to request an
exception.
17.3.21 Information disposal
Users must securely erase ‘internal’ or higher classified information
promptly in non-recoverable manner when they are no longer required.
Users must physically destroy all hard copy of confidential documents in
non-recoverable manner prior to disposal. Users shall escalate to IT
Division as required [link: 17.5.1].
17.3.22 IT Asset Security
All users are responsible for preventing the theft of IT assets. Users shall
ensure following controls in order to prevent theft of, or unauthorized
access to IT Assets.
 IT Assets except mobile devices shall be locked with security wire in all
publically accessible locations, or where the asset has accessed data of
classification of ’Confidential’ or above
 IT Assets must be securely stored in locked drawers or cabinets when not
in use
 Screen lock functions must be configured to activate automatically after
no longer than 5 minutes
17.3.23 Protection against malicious software
Users are responsible for ensuring that any IT asset they manage have:
 Latest software patches and updates applied
 Anti-virus or other applicable anti-malicious software installed and up to
date
 Real-time inspection of files for malicious software is enable Potentially
malicious files quarantined when detected
17
ch17_information-technology-&-security_en_20180401_cl

 A full scan of the files to detect malicious software run periodically
 All data or software received from external parties scanned before
opening or importing
Users must remain abreast of the latest security updates from IT, and make
efforts to prevent malicious software infection
17.3.24 Mitigation of threats to IT Services
OIST is under constant attack from external parties seeking to access and
exploit its IT Resources. In protecting OIST and its users, IT Division and
systems administrators shall conform to the following requirements.
17.3.24.1 Software vulnerability management
System administrators shall ensure patches or workarounds are in
place for any published vulnerabilities prior to production use of any
software. Once a system has moved to production operation, system
administrators shall remain appraised of updates and patches to
systems, and apply them in a timely fashion, accounting for potential
impact to the system and its users. Where a vulnerability which may
result in the compromise of OIST information assets is detected, the
system administrator shall immediately contact the CIO and CISM
and take appropriate action to protect OIST information assets.
17.3.24.2 Measures to limit malicious software
System administrators shall install anti-malware software into
servers or other devices that supports such software. The system
administrator shall monitor status of anti-malware software and take
any action necessary. The system administrator shall keep antimalware software and its definition files up to date. Only system
administrators shall have the escalated privileges required to change
the configuration of anti-malware software, and shall not grant such
privilege to other users. The system administrator shall configure
anti-malware software to scan to the system periodically.
17.3.25 Intrusion prevention
The system administrators shall implement the following controls in order
to prevent intrusion into servers and systems;
 Delete or turn off unnecessary services
 Prevent the execution of unknown or unauthorized programs or code
 Ensure firewall configurations are created and updated such as to allow
18
ch17_information-technology-&-security_en_20180401_cl

only the communication channels required for the operation of the
system or software
The system administrator shall implement the following controls in order
to prevent intrusion via removal media (where the use of such devices is
permitted) [link: 17.8.20];
 Disable all unnecessary USB ports or physical connections to the server
or device
 Scan removable media using anti-malware software upon connection
17.3.26 Training
17.3.26.1 User training
Supervisors are responsible for ensuring that a user is properly
trained with regard to information security prior to commencing
work, and is to ensure that the user conducts themselves accordingly.
17.3.26.2 System Administrators Training
System Administrators must be fully trained in all aspects of system
security prior to being granted escalated privileges to OIST systems.
17.3.27 Web presence
17.3.27.1 Domain name management
IT Division manages the oist.jp domain on behalf of the
Communications and Public Relations division.
Research unit websites shall be located within the unit.oist.jp domain
or other subdomain and under the control of IT Division. This rule is
in place to allow clear differentiation between the core university web
presence and that of the research units or projects.
17.3.27.2 Internet domain name per purpose
Research projects which require a URL which lies entirely outside of
the OIST domain, shall request IT Division to register the external
domain name and to create the virtual machine to house the site. This
request shall be approved by the CIO, and the Dean of Research /
These domains shall normally be restricted to .org or .net (nonprofit) extensions, other domains shall require consultation with and
approval by the CIO. All units are required to keep their OIST unit
19
ch17_information-technology-&-security_en_20180401_cl

(groups) site up to date, the creation of any websites for the
promotion of the unit itself outside of this space is discouraged.
17.3.28 Operation and Management
17.3.28.1 Business continuity planning
Information asset managers and IT Division shall develop business
continuity plans, ensuring the availability of OIST information assets
and resources. Business continuity plans shall be tested at least
annually to validate their effectiveness, and to ensure staff are
appropriately trained in its execution.
17.3.28.2 Backup
Information Asset Managers
information assets are backed
redundancy, commensurate to
Asset Managers shall identify
assets and manage them.

and IT Division shall ensure that
up to a frequency, and to a level of
the value of the assets. Information
the retention period of information

Restore tests are to be conducted annually, or more frequently for
‘Critical’ or rapidly evolving information assets.
Information Asset Managers shall request IT Division delete, revoke
or physically destroy backup data for assets which have exceeded their
retention period, or no are longer required.
17.3.28.3 Change management
Change Management is a process that ensures that any change made
to OIST IT Resources is documented, reviewed and approved. It
encompasses both larger planned changes such as projects and smaller
reactive changes such as software patches and unscheduled server
maintenance. Change management processes and procedures must be
in place, documented and implemented for all OIST IT Resources.
Management responsibilities and procedures will be defined to ensure
satisfactory control of all changes to equipment, software, or
procedures. These procedures will be defined in the SLA.
17.3.29 Access to OIST IT facilities
Access to OIST IT facilities, including server rooms and network and
communication spaces, is restricted. All access to these facilities is subject
to authorization and authentication, access must be approved by the CIO or
20
ch17_information-technology-&-security_en_20180401_cl

CISM.
Access for the purposes of site-tours should be coordinated through the CIO
Office.
17.3.30 Hosting of hardware in OIST IT facilities
Any party at OIST wishing to purchase and/or house hardware (including
servers and storage) into OIST IT facilities must consult with IT Division.
Failure to do so will likely result in the hardware being ineligible to be
housed; IT Division reserves the right to refuse to house any hardware it
does not deem appropriate or safe to house in OIST facilities. The hardware
must further confirm to OIST server hardware requirements, the basic
requirements for server hardware are specified at PRP 17.5.6 [link: 17.5.6].
17.3.31 Logging and monitoring
IT Division shall as a matter of course collect and analyze logging
information from IT resources in order to detect intrusion or misuse. IT
Division retains the right to access any and all logging information
generated by any IT resource for this purpose. In complying with legal
requirements and contractual obligations, IT Division shall also retain audit
logs covering user activity, security events and any other relevant
information. This information is classified as ‘confidential’ and access
restricted to appropriate members of IT Division accordingly.
17.3.32 Further Policies Rules and Procedures
Faculty or Vice Presidents within the University may impose additional
rules and procedures upon the use of OIST information assets. Such
additional rules and procedures must be consistent with this Chapter; but
they may provide additional detail or greater restrictions; they may not
reduce restrictions.
Students should refer to the Chapter 5 “Graduate School Handbook” [link:
5] in addition to familiarizing themselves with this chapter.
17.4 Right and Responsibilities
17.4.1 The University
The University owns and controls all its information assets. Though the
University takes reasonable security measures to protect the security of its
IT resources, the University does not guarantee absolute security nor
privacy. The University has the right to monitor any and all IT Resources
21
ch17_information-technology-&-security_en_20180401_cl

and their usage, including e-mail, without limitation. The University is
responsible for taking any measures necessary to ensure the security and
integrity of its IT Resources. When it becomes aware of violations of policy
or Japanese law, either through routine system administration activities or
via incident notification, it is the responsibility of the University to
investigate as needed or directed, and to take all necessary actions in order
to protect its resources and/or to provide information relevant to an
investigation.
In this regard, the Chief Information Officer (CIO) [link:17.4.5], Chief
Information Security Manager (CISM) [link:17.4.6] and Networking and
Telecommunications Manager [link:17.4.7] have specific rights and
responsibilities.
17.4.2 User’s rights and responsibilities
Users [link: 17.8.11] are granted access to IT resources in order to conduct
University business. In using these resources, users agree to abide by all
relevant University policies, rules, procedures and applicable law. Users
must acknowledge this understanding by reading and signing the OIST
Graduate University Acceptable Use Policy [link: 17.6.1], via physical
signature or digital equivalent.
17.4.3 Faculty
Faculty members serve as Information Asset Manager [link: 17.4.8] for
information assets within their purview, and may delegate the Information
Asset Administrator [link: 17.4.9] role to a unit member. In managing
research Information Assets, Faculty will give due consideration to
contractual requirements, such as research agreements with other
Universities or companies.
Faculty are responsible for ensuring that users under their supervision are
trained in all relevant IT policy, rules and procedures as well as applicable
law prior to commencing work.
17.4.4 Vice Presidents, Senior Managers and Managers
Vice-Presidents are responsible for nominating Information Asset
Managers to manage information Assets within their remit.
Vice-Presidents, Senior Managers and Managers are responsible for
ensuring that users under their supervision are trained in all relevant IT
policy, rules and procedures as well as applicable law prior to commencing
22
ch17_information-technology-&-security_en_20180401_cl

work.
17.4.5 Chief Information Officer (CIO)
The CIO has the following general accountability and responsibilities with
regard to University IT:
 Establishing a strategic plan for University Information Technology
 Overseeing the development, installation and maintenance of IT systems
 Establishing and disseminate enforceable rules regarding access to and
acceptable use of Information Assets
 Establishing reasonable security policies and measures to protect data
and systems
 Monitoring and managing system resource usage
 Investigating problems and alleged violations of University policy, and
reporting violations to the President
 Designating a Chief Information Security Manager (CISM)
17.4.6 Chief Information Security Manger (CISM)
The CISM has overall responsibility for ensuring the security of the
University, including:
 Developing security processes and procedures
 Conducting information security incident response, reporting results to
the CIO
 Developing an audit plan, conducting it at a minimum of annually
 Developing, installing and operating IT security monitoring systems
17.4.7 Networking and Telecommunications Manager (NTM)
The Networking and Telecommunication Manager (NTM) is responsible for
the function and integrity of the OIST network. The NTC Manager has the
right to disconnect or refuse the connection of any device to the OIST
network. Where the NTC manager determines that a device has been used
in a manner which violates OIST policy, the incident is to be reported to the
CIO and CISM.
17.4.8 Information Asset Manager
Information Asset Managers are accountable for defining the classification
level of, authorizing access to, and ensuring an appropriate permission
scheme for, the information assets within their remit, in accordance to any
and all relevant laws, rules and regulations. In most cases, Information
Asset Manager is the head of a research unit or administrative division
23
ch17_information-technology-&-security_en_20180401_cl

handling the information asset.
The Information Asset Manager may designate an Information Asset
Administrator to manage information assets, but accountability remains
with the Information Asset Manager.
17.4.9 Information Asset Administrator
Information Asset Administrators are responsible for ensuring appropriate
handing of OIST information assets.
17.4.10 Privileged users and System Administrators
All users granted escalated privileges, including System Administrators, are
responsible for the application of this and related policies to the IT
resources in their care, under the direction of system owners and
Information Asset Managers. Beyond the OIST Acceptable Use Policy [link:
17.6.1], these users must also read and sign the System Administrators Code
of Conduct [link: 17.6.2].
17.4.11 Third-party users
OIST expects all partners, consultants and vendors agree to, and abide by
all relevant University policies, rules and procedures, as well as all
applicable law. If information assets or resources above a “Public”
classification are to be accessed or shared with these third parties, they shall
be bound by contract to abide by OIST’s Acceptable Use Policy [link: 17.6.1]
as well as a suitably drafted non-disclosure agreement.
17.4.12 System Developers and Integrators
System Developers and Integrators are responsible for the application of
this and related policies to all IT resources in their purview. If information
assets or resources above a public classification are to be accessed or shared
with these third parties, they shall be bound by contract to abide by OIST’s
Acceptable Use Policy [link: 17.6.1] as well as a suitably drafted nondisclosure agreement.
17.5 Procedures
For details on the IT procedures and Information Security, please see the IT
Division website https://groups.oist.jp/it.
17.5.1 General IT request process
Any user wishing to contact OIST IT can do so via;

24
ch17_information-technology-&-security_en_20180401_cl

 E-mail: it-help@oist.jp
 Web request form: https://groups.oist.jp/it
 In person: Lab 2 Level B (mountain side)
17.5.2 Purchasing or upgrading an IT asset within the
administration
The purchase or upgrade of an IT assets within the administration is to be
performed via IT Division. The catalog of standard devices is as listed on the
IT Division site https://groups.oist.jp/it/hardware-catalog. Purchasing
requires the approval of the division leader, once obtained staff should
contact IT [link: 17.5.1]. Non-standard devices are permitted by exception
from the CIO or Support Services Manager
17.5.3 Purchasing or upgrading an IT asset within research units
The catalog of standard hardware is provided on the IT Division website
https://groups.oist.jp/it/hardware-catalog. These devices are tested and
well supported in the OIST environment. If researchers wish to purchase
any item on the catalog, they can contact IT Division via the process
described in PRP 17.5.1 [link: 17.5.1] to request a quote.
If researchers wish to purchase any devices not on the catalog, they are
strongly encouraged to contact IT Division first to ensure that the device
will be compatible with OIST systems. IT Division also has a strong
knowledge of local vendors and is better placed to negotiate.
In the case that IT assets are to be part of or attached to research equipment,
guidelines regarding the specification of these assets are defined here:
https://groups.oist.jp/it/basic-recommended-specification-researchdevice-connected-pcs
17.5.4 Offsite Usage Authorization
https://groups.oist.jp/it/post/2012/06/06/formspolicies
17.5.5 How to re-allocate or relinquish an IT asset
https://groups.oist.jp/it/post/2012/06/06/formspolicies
17.5.6 Hosting devices in IT facilities
https://groups.oist.jp/it/hosting-devices-oist-it-facilities
17.5.7 Specification process for enterprise applications
https://groups.oist.jp/eas/specification-process-enterprise-applications
25
ch17_information-technology-&-security_en_20180401_cl

17.5.8 Information Security Incident Response
https://groups.oist.jp/it/info-sec-incident-response
17.5.9 Email & Online Communication Code of Practice
https://groups.oist.jp/it/email-and-online-communication-code-practice

17.6 Forms
17.6.1 OIST Graduate University Acceptable Use Policy
https://groups.oist.jp/it/it-aup
17.6.2 System Administrators Code of Conduct
https://groups.oist.jp/it/info-sec-aua
17.7 Contacts
Policy Owner: Chief Information Officer
17.8 Definitions
17.8.1 Information Technology Resources (IT Resources)
The University defines its IT Resources as comprising of the set of all
Information assets, and Information Technology Assets (IT Assets).
17.8.2 Information Assets
The University defines its Information Assets as comprising of all University
information; including but not limited to all research and administrative,
data, files, workflows and mechanisms for managing University
information regardless of media format. This broad definition encompasses
special categories of information assets for which further rules and
procedures apply, such as Corporate Documents, and Personal Information.
17.8.3 Information Technology Assets (IT Assets)
The University defines IT Assets as all computer, communication devices
and other technologies which access, store or transmit digital University
Information; including but not limited to electronic networks, systems,
cloud services, computers, devices, telephones and software, whether
wholly owned by the university or otherwise.
17.8.4 Devices
26
ch17_information-technology-&-security_en_20180401_cl

Device is a synonym for Information Technology Assets [link: 17.8.3].
17.8.5 Information Technology Service Management (ITSM)
Information Technology Service Management (ITSM) is a set of practices
that focuses on aligning IT services with the needs of business.
17.8.6 Service Level Agreement (SLA)
A Service Level Agreement (SLA) is a document defined in the ITSM
standard. This document describes the level of service expected of IT
Division by users, and lays out the metrics by which that service will be
measured. https://groups.oist.jp/it/it-service-level-agreement
17.8.7 Information Security
The underlying principles of information security are described on the OIST
Information Security Website.
https://groups.oist.jp/it/information-security
17.8.8 Legislation Relevant to Information Security
The following legislation is relevant to Information Security at OIST.
 Act on Prohibition of Unauthorized Computer Access
 Act on the Protection of Personal Information Held by Independent
Administrative Agencies, etc.
 Act on Access to Information Held by Incorporated Administrative
Agencies, etc.
 Act on Electronic Signatures and Certification Business (Electronic
Signatures Act)
 Copyright Act
 Unfair Competition Prevention Act
17.8.9 Information classification and device eligibility
https://groups.oist.jp/it/info-sec-classification
17.8.10 Information System (System)
An information system is a system composed of people and computers that
processes or interprets information. In the case of OIST, information
systems are systems that process, transmit or store OIST information assets.
This includes but is not limited to systems developed, purchased or
outsourced.
17.8.11 Users
27
ch17_information-technology-&-security_en_20180401_cl

Any individual or entity granted access to OIST IT Resources to a level above
that available to the general public.
17.8.12 Information Asset Manager
Individuals accountable for defining the classification level, authorizing
access to, and ensuring an appropriate permission scheme for the
information assets, in accordance to any and all relevant laws, rules and
regulations.
17.8.13 Information Asset Administrator
Individuals tasked with ensuring appropriate handing of OIST information
assets.
17.8.14 Escalated Privileges
Privileges which allow users access to information assets or IT resources to
a level beyond that normally permitted.
17.8.15 Privileged users
Users granted escalated privileges.
17.8.16 System Administrator
A subset of privileged users, possessing administration rights to systems or
services.
17.8.17 Identity Management System (IDM)
The OIST Identity Management System (IDM) handles enterprise or crossnetwork identity management. The system controls OIST authentication
and authorization systems, facilitating appropriate access schemes to
information assets.
17.8.18 Server
A system that responds to requests across a computer network to provide,
or help to provide, a service.
17.8.19 Storage media
Storage media is a device or tangible object for storing digital information,
including hard drives, USB memory, DVD’s etc.
17.8.20 Removable media
Storage media designed to portable.

28
ch17_information-technology-&-security_en_20180401_cl

17.8.21 Securely erase
To render all data on a storage media unreadable in an unrecoverable
fashion.
17.8.22 Outsourcing
Provisioning services or systems under contract from a supplier external to
the University.
17.8.23 Entity
A person, process, client, or server accessing OIST IT systems.
17.8.24 Entity Authentication
The process by which one entity is assured of the second.
17.8.25 Identification
Specification of the entity accessing the system.
17.8.26 Access control
The limitation of access to information resources to only permitted entities.
17.8.27 Access right management
To manage the authorization information in accounts and access control.
17.8.28 Account
Any entity registered into the OIST IDM.
17.8.29 Encryption
The process of encoding information assets in such a way that only
authorized entities can read it.
17.8.30 Malicious program (Malware)
Malware is any software used to disrupt computer or mobile operations,
gather sensitive information, gain access to private computer systems, or
display unwanted advertising.
17.8.31 Anti-malware definition file
Data which is referred by Anti-Malware software to determine the malicious
program.
17.8.32 CMDB
The OIST configuration management database (CMDB) is a repository that
29
ch17_information-technology-&-security_en_20180401_cl

stores information regarding IT assets, as well as descriptive relationships
between them.
17.8.33 Software catalog
https://groups.oist.jp/it/oist-software
17.8.34 Disaster recovery and Business continuity planning
Disaster recovery (DR) involves a set of policies, procedures, systems and
organization to enable the recovery or continuation of vital technology
infrastructure and systems following a natural or human-induced disaster.
Business continuity plan (BCP) is a plan to continue operations if a place of
business is affected by different levels of disaster which can be localized
short term disasters, to days long building wide problems, to a permanent
loss of a building.
17.8.35 Information security incident
Information security incidents are defined as a single or series of unwanted
events that compromise (or are likely to compromise) the confidentiality,
integrity or availability of OIST information assets and/or breach OIST
policy or Japanese law. A compromise is an incident where the security of a
system or its information was successfully harmed.
Examples of information security incidents include:
 Data loss due to any cause including operation error such as personal data
being e-mailed to the wrong recipient
 Unauthorized use of a system for the processing or storage of data
 Noncompliance with information security and acceptable use policies
 Theft or other loss of a laptop, desktop, PDA, or other device that stores
the University information, whether or not the device is owned by the
University
 Attempts (either failed or successful) to gain unauthorized access to a
system or its data
 Unwanted disruption or denial of service
 Malfunctions of software or hardware
17.8.36 An advanced persistent threat (APT)
An advanced persistent threat (APT) is a set of stealthy and continuous
computer hacking processes, often orchestrated by human(s) targeting a
specific entity. APT processes require a high degree of covertness over a long
30
ch17_information-technology-&-security_en_20180401_cl

period of time. The advanced process signifies sophisticated techniques
using malware to exploit vulnerabilities in systems. The persistent process
suggests that an external command and control system is continuously
monitoring and extracting data from a specific target. The threat process
indicates human involvement in orchestrating the attack.

31
ch17_information-technology-&-security_en_20180401_cl

OIST Graduate University
Policies, Rules & Procedures
Authority: Approved by the President

Chapter 18. Telecommunications Services and Devices
18.1 Policy
The OIST Graduate University (the University) aims to provide
telecommunications services (including mobile phone services) to the
University researchers and employees in a manner which is fair, simple,
accountable and financially responsible. The University allocates
telecommunications devices where appropriate in order to;
• Avoid excessive charges to the individual, generated where the
University business must be conducted via a telecommunications
device.
• Prevent the conduct of the University business via a personal
telecommunications device where inappropriate.
• Ensure the individual has the capacity to act in emergency situations
where tasked with doing so.
This policy applies all telecommunications services and devices regardless of
the country of purchase, telecommunications carrier, or if the device has an
associated ongoing service contract.
All the University telecommunications devices, including mobile phones, are
managed by the University IT Division under centralized contracts. These
centralized contracts result in significant cost benefits for the University; for
example, calls from one University mobile phone to another incur no charges.
18.2

General Considerations
18.2.1 It is anticipated that all University users will have a personal
telecommunications device in addition to the University provided
device.
18.2.2 University provided telecommunications devices are intended to
be used for business purposes only.
18.2.3 Limited personal use of telecommunication devices by President
[link: 2.4.1], Auditors [link: 2.4.4], Senior Level Executive [link:

1
ch18_Telecommunications-Services-and-Devices_20170816_en_cl

30.2.2.1.1] and Faculty Member [link: 30.2.2.1.2] (hereinafter
“Executive Members”) is permitted.
18.2.3.1 Where the monthly charges for the device exceed the
threshold [link: 18.3.3], Executive Members will be
presented with 3 months of usage data, and asked to
identify the personal usage component. This personal
usage component will be used to create a fixed
percentage monthly charge for personal usage. Ongoing
monthly charges for the device will be monitored by IT
Division, and where average monthly charges for the
device increase or decrease markedly, the above process
will be repeated to calculate an updated fixed
percentage monthly charge for personal usage.
18.2.4 There are several classes of telecommunications devices, which
vary in cost to the University. Please see the list of standard
University provided telecommunication devices [link:].
18.2.4.1 The University standard devices are selected based on
functionality. Where a newer device does not present a
benefit to the University business over a standard
device, the device will not be provided regardless of
personal preference.
18.2.4.2 The class of device provided will be commensurate with
the business requirement. For example, lower cost
devices such as flip-phones will be allocated where a
more advanced device is not required.
18.2.5 Ownership and control of University IT devices, including
telecommunications devices, is described in the PRP 17.2.1 [link:
17.2.1].
18.2.6 In general, the University funding for overseas purchase of IT and
telecommunications services and devices is not permitted.
Exceptions may be considered where specific University business
is shown to require a local device overseas, and where the usage
will be solely for that purposes. In general, internet chat and
video conferencing services should be used for international
communications.
18.2.7 Rental telecommunications devices are available from the IT
Division, and rental of these devices is preferred over allocation to
an individual where the requirement is temporary in nature.

2
ch18_Telecommunications-Services-and-Devices_20170816_en_cl

18.2.8 Sections and units can also apply for locally shared
telecommunications devices. These devices would be managed at
the section or unit level, and allocated for specific functions, such
as new employees, visiting researchers etc.
18.2.8.1 Sections and units are to elect a staff member who will
be responsible for the management and allocation of
any locally shared telecommunications devices.
18.3

Rules
18.3.1 Eligibility for a University telecommunications device must
satisfy the eligibility criteria [link:
https://groups.oist.jp/it/applying-oist-telecommunicationsdevice] including;
•
The need to conduct the University business via a
telecommunications device while outside the University
premises;
➢ Where the use of another medium is not feasible.
➢ Where the lack of said device would cause unavoidable
and substantial costs to be incurred by the individual.
➢ Where the detriment to timeliness, or losses in
productivity would have a substantial impact on the
University business.
 Senior Level Executives are in general deemed to
meet these criteria.
•
The need for emergency contact, where the use of a personal
mobile phone or telecommunications device is inappropriate;
➢ Where the contact is of a legal or personally sensitive
nature, i.e. medical or other confidential matters
➢ Where the emergency situation would have an effect on
the University as a whole.

18.3.2 Applications for the University telecommunications device must
meet the eligibility criteria, and pass through an approval process
[link: https://groups.oist.jp/it/applying-oisttelecommunications-device]. This approval process requires;
•
A justification which meets the eligibility criteria
and clearly details;
➢ The class of device required
➢ Why the device is required
➢ The intended usage
➢ Whether the device is for individual or locally
shared use
3
ch18_Telecommunications-Services-and-Devices_20170816_en_cl

•

➢ The period for which the device is required
Approval process
➢ Senior Level Executives shall receive approval
from Chief Information Officer.
➢ Other employees shall receive approval from
Vice Presidents /Faculty Member or
equivalent positions or above first, and seek
final approval from Chief Information Officer.

18.3.3 Where monthly device costs exceed a threshold, confirmation
that the usage was for business purposes will be required. Where
the usage was personal in nature, the user will be requested to
cover these costs. This threshold is currently set at 10,000 yen.
18.3.4 Inappropriate usage of telecommunication devices will be
assessed by the Chief Information Officer and IT Service &
Support Committee [link: https://groups.oist.jp/itssc] with
possible outcomes to include;
•
Suspension or cancellation of the device
•
Request for the user to cover any additional charges
18.4

Responsibilities
18.4.1 Users, Sections and Units
18.4.1.1 Users, sections and units are to ensure that the usage of
University telecommunications devices abides by all
policies, rules and procedures as detailed in the PRP
Chapter 17 Information Technology & Security [link: 17]
at all times.
18.4.1.2 Users, sections and units are to notify the IT Division
when the usage requirement as detailed in the approval
process changes or ceases. In this case users, sections
and units may be required to relinquish the device, or to
re-apply via the approval process.
18.4.1.3 Users sections and units are to notify the IT Division as
soon as possible in the case of loss or damage to the
University telecommunications device.
18.4.1.4 Users, sections and units are responsible for ensuring
that any University telecommunications device is used
for appropriate work purposes at all times.
18.4.2 Vice Presidents /Faculty Member or equivalent
positions or above

4
ch18_Telecommunications-Services-and-Devices_20170816_en_cl

18.4.2.1

Vice Presidents /Faculty Member or equivalent
positions or above are responsible for ensuring that
staff under their supervision are using University
telecommunication devices appropriately, and in
compliance with the provisions in this chapter.

18.4.3 IT Division
18.4.3.1 IT Division is to contract for and manage all University
telecommunication devices including mobile phones.
18.4.3.2 IT Division is to allocate, track and maintain the
University telecommunications devices.
18.4.3.3 IT Division is to alert users, sections and units when
monthly cost exceeds the accounting threshold, and
send a cost breakdown to the user.
18.4.3.4 IT Division is to maintain relevant documentation and
processes.
18.4.4 Chief Information Officer
18.4.4.1 Chief Information Officer shall ensure the IT processes
and procedures are in place such as to implement the
policy as defined in this chapter.
18.4.4.2 Chief Information Officer is responsible for ensuring
the fair provision of services and that University
telecommunication devices are provided in the most
cost-effective way to meet the business communication
requirements of authorized users.
18.4.4.3 Chief Information Officer is also responsible for
assessing inappropriate usage of telecommunication
devices and determining action in the case of suspected
inappropriate use of a device in conjunction with the IT
Service & Support Committee.
18.4.5 IT Service and Support Committee (ITSSC)
18.4.5.1 ITSSC shall deliberate and recommend policies on the
University telecommunications device. ITSSC is
responsible for determining action in the case of
suspected inappropriate use of a device in conjunction
with Chief Information Officer.
18.4.6 The Dean of Research
18.4.6.1 The Chief Information Officer advises the President on
all high level IT and computing services relevant to the
OIST community and its security. The CIO reports to
the Dean of Research for all operational matters.
5
ch18_Telecommunications-Services-and-Devices_20170816_en_cl

18.4.6.2 The Dean of Research has the ultimate responsibility
for ensuring the appropriate implementation of policies,
rules and procedures in this chapter.
18.5

Procedures
18.5.1 Any member of the University applying for the University
telecommunications device should complete the application form
[link: https://groups.oist.jp/it/applying-oisttelecommunications-device], then submit this form to IT Division.

18.6

Forms
18.6.1 The application form is available on the IT Division website [link:
https://groups.oist.jp/it/applying-oist-telecommunicationsdevice].

18.7

Contacts
18.7.1 Policy Owner:
Chief Information Officer

18.7.2 Other Contacts:
IT Division

6
ch18_Telecommunications-Services-and-Devices_20170816_en_cl

The OIST Graduate University
Policies, Rules and Procedures
Authority: Approved by the President

Chapter 19. University Events
19.1 Policy
Members of the OIST Graduate University (the University) are encouraged to
organize international conferences, workshops, seminars and courses (collectively,
“Academic Events”) that facilitate scientific interaction and promote the
University mission [link: 1.2]. The University also wishes to be a friendly,
welcoming location that supports local communities, staff, students, family
members, and visitors through a variety of functions and activities, including, but
not limited to, meetings, artistic activities, public lectures, conferences,
workshops, concerts, and cultural clubs. Collectively, Academic Events and the
other activities dealt with in this chapter will be referred to as “Events.”
NOTE: This Chapter does not deal with permanent or semi-permanent allocation
of teaching space (rooms, lecture halls, and the like) for courses, classes, and
teaching as part of the Graduate School curriculum, nor does it address
use/booking of those spaces. Allocation and use of teaching space is a
responsibility specifically vested in the office of the Dean of the Graduate School
[link: 2.4.5].
19.3 Rules for Scheduling & Booking Venues
19.3.1 Rooms
Rooms and similar venues (those which are not “teaching spaces” reserved
for the use of the Graduate School) must be booked using the University’s
online Exchange room reservation system. Reservations can be made up to
one year in advance. Booking priority is given to official University
functions. Conflicting requests and double bookings will be dealt with on a
case-by-case basis by the office of the Vice President for Communication
and Public Relations [link: 16].
For information concerning the booking of “common space” rooms by
members of the public, please see Public Use of Common Space [link
19.3.2.4] in this chapter.
19.3.2 Conferences, Workshops, Seminars, Exhibits, Events

ch19_university-events_en_20171110_cl

19.3.2.1 Academic Events:
In January of each year, applications must be submitted to the
Workshop Committee for Academic Events which are to be held at the
University during the fiscal year commencing 16 months later (April
of the next year). This lead-time is critical to the process of evaluating,
prioritizing, locating, and calendaring academic events. NOTE: After
an Academic Event has been approved, significant variations in the size
and scope are not permitted without the prior approval of the
Workshop Committee. A significant variation is defined as a change of
more than 5% in the total budget, or a 10% change in the number of
participants in different categories. Substitution of speakers due to
cancellation is permitted within these limits. Applications for
variations will be considered at the next meeting of the Workshop
Committee. At least one month should be allowed for approval of
variations.
19.3.2.1.1 The Workshop Committee reviews the applications and
makes recommendations to the President. Incomplete applications
will be returned without review.
• Applications will be evaluated according to the scientific
merits of the proposed Academic Event and the costs and
benefits to the University of hosting it.
o A budget must be provided in accordance with the
recommendations of the Workshop Committee.
o If additional external funding support is being
requested or has been received for an Academic Event,
this fact must be stated in the original application.
o Funding awarded by the Workshop Committee may
not be supplemented from the budgets of Research
Units.
• Criteria for student participation, selection and financial
support should be detailed.
• Applicants must provide an indicative list of names and
affiliations of the proposed speakers.
• The Workshop Committee will review applications submitted
outside the closing dates at its next meeting.
19.3.2.1.2 Academic events must be coordinated between the Unit
that proposes the event (and its program, content, speakers) and
with the University’s Conference and Workshop Section in the

ch19_university-events_en_20171110_cl

Communication and Public Relations Division, which is responsible
for the logistics. Questions about the details of the application
process may be referred to the Vice President for Communication
and Public Relations .
19.3.2.1.3 Logistical support for travel, accommodation and facilities,
websites, etc. will be provided by the University’s Conference and
Workshop Section. Preparation and distribution of meeting
materials, programs, proceedings, advertising, entertainment, etc. is
the responsibility of the organizers.
19.3.2.1.4 Disbursements associated with the organization and
running of Academic Events (including travel for guests and other
hospitality) must be approved by the office of the Vice President for
Financial Management.
19.3.2.2 University Non-Academic Events
Events such as Open Campus, Inaugurations, Public Lectures,
Concerts, and Exhibitions are organized with guidance from the office
of the Vice President for Communication and Public Relations [link:
16].
19.3.2.2.1 The Colloquium Committee is responsible for establishing
an annual program of colloquia that would normally be scientific in
nature but not necessarily directly relevant to the research activities
of the University.
19.3.2.2.2 The Culture Committee is responsible for establishing an
annual program of cultural events, exhibitions, concerts, and public
talks.
19.3.2.3 Externally Funded/Organized Non-Academic Events
(NOTE: Externally funded Academic Events must be referred to the
office of the Vice President for Communication and Public Relations )
Conference facilities and other venues of the University may be used
for Events organized and/or funded by groups external to the
University (External Events), including non-profit organizations and
commercial enterprises. Although External Events need not be directly
relevant to the scientific or educational programs of the University,
they should be consistent with the University’s goals of fostering
outstanding international research in science and technology,

ch19_university-events_en_20171110_cl

encouraging multidisciplinary research, training students and young
scientists, or fostering self-sustaining development in Okinawa.
Additional details may be obtained through the office of the Vice
President for Communication and Public Relations [link: 2.4.5].
19.3.2.3.1 Applications for use of University facilities must be
submitted to the Workshop Committee (Chapter 19.3.2.1.1 [link 19:
3.2.1.1]).
19.3.2.3.2 University-sponsored Events in general will take
precedence over External Events in scheduling and use of facilities
and resources.
19.3.2.3.3 All External Events must be open to members of the
University community.
19.3.2.3.4 Unless by unusual exception, no fee for the use of the
University facilities for externally organized and/or funded Events
will be charged; however, the Events must be cost neutral to the
University.
19.3.2.4 Public Use of University “Common Spaces”
Members of the public are encouraged to visit the University campus.
Access is open to the entrance gallery, center court, cafeteria,
restaurant space, and the village zone. Access to laboratory buildings,
however, is restricted to authorized University personnel. The general
public can also use the University facilities for meetings and certain
other events. Please see Chapter 21 [link: 21.3] for the details of
reservation.
19.3.3 Catering and Other Special Services
Any disbursements associated with catering and running of Conferences,
Workshops and Courses (including travel for guests and other hospitality)
must contact either the Procurement Section [link: 28] or Travel Expense
Team of Accounting Section [link: 29] in the office of the Vice President for
Financial Management, depending on the contents [link: 2.4.5].
19.3.3.1 Catering
The University will enter into an annual contract based on cost per
meal with an outside caterer to supply food and beverage during

ch19_university-events_en_20171110_cl

Events. This contract however is not exclusive and conference
organizers are free to choose different caterers.
19.3.3.2 Accommodations
An annual contract based on cost per room will be entered into with a
local hotel to provide accommodation during Events. This contract
however is not exclusive and conference organizers are free to choose
different hotels.
19.4 Responsibilities
Persons wishing to organize Academic Events must notify the office of the Vice
President for Communication and Public Relations and contact the Workshop
Committee Secretariat.
Persons wishing to reserve a room for non-academic purposes must use the
University’s online Exchange room reservation system.
Persons wishing to schedule a venue for an externally funded/sponsored academic
event must contact the office of the Vice President for Communication and Public
Relations.
Persons wishing to schedule a venue for an externally organized/funded event
must contact the office of the Vice President for Communications and Public
Relations [link: 16].
Persons, including the public, seeking to use University Buildings, Facilities,
Grounds must make reservations and obtain any other approvals (Chapter 21.5.1
[link: 21.5.1]).
Personnel responsible for making reservations must contact the Community
Relations Section [link: 2.5] to assure that the space is available for the time sought
and that its use will not conflict with any other University activities.
The Workshop Committee Secretariat must coordinate with the office of the Vice
President for Financial Management (if special expenses are involved), with the
office of the Vice President for Buildings and Facilities Management (availability
of venues – conflict with construction or similar activity – security issues), and
with the office of the Vice President for Communications and Public Relations.
The Vice President for Communications and Public Relations is authorized to
determine, on a case-by-case basis, whether requested use of areas other than

ch19_university-events_en_20171110_cl

Common Spaces for a non-University purpose may be permitted.
19.5 Procedures
19.5.1 Proposals for academic conferences, workshops and courses are
called for in January each year for events starting after April of the following
year. Contact the Workshop Committee; details of how to submit an
application to the Workshop Committee may be obtained from the office of
the Vice President for Communication and Public Relations.
19.5.2 For logistical support for travel, accommodation, facilities, and
websites associated with conferences, contact the University Conference
and Workshop Section [link: 2.5].
19.5.3 Expenditures and disbursements related to the Event, including
those for travel and hospitality, must be processed through either the
Procurement Section [link: 28] or Travel Expense Team of Accounting
Section [link: 29] in the office of the Vice President for Financial
Management, depending on the contents.
19.5.4 Events such as Open Campus, Inaugurations, Groundbreaking
Ceremonies, Public Lectures, Concerts, and Exhibitions are organized with
guidance from the office of the Vice President for Communication and
Public Relations [link: 16].
19.5.5 Proposals for externally organized Events must be submitted to the
Workshop Committee.
19.7 Contacts
19.7.1 Policy Owners
the Vice President for Communication and Public Relations
19.7.2 Other Contacts
Community Relations Section Leader,
community-relations@oist.jp
19.8 Definitions

ch19_university-events_en_20171110_cl

OIST Graduate University
Policies, Rules and Procedures
Authority
 Approved by the President
 Industrial Safety and Health Act
 School Health and Safety Act
 Medical Care Act

Chapter 20. Health and Wellness Program
20.1 Policy
Health is not merely the absence of disease or infirmity and good health involves
physical, mental and social well-being. To achieve the mission of the OIST Graduate
University (hereinafter “the University”), it is critical that students and staff members
are able to study and/or work to their optimum. Ensuring and maintaining good health
and wellbeing is critical to this mission. By establishing and operating the OIST Clinic,
Health Center and Ganjuu Wellbeing Service (Psychology led service providing
therapy, consultation & skills training to support individuals, teams and organizational
wellbeing), the University aims to meet the physical & emotional needs of the OIST
community. Students and staff members can access these services within work time.
20.2 Rules
20.2.1 OIST Clinic
20.2.1.1 Name of the clinic
The clinic on campus is named as OIST Clinic.
20.2.1.2 Providing medical care
OIST Clinic provides medical care which is at least equal to the level of
care provided at general clinics in Japan to students, employees and their
families.
20.2.1.3 Health issues
OIST Clinic’s primary focus is providing an emergency response/first
aid to individuals experiencing illnesses and injuries. This may involve
assessing, diagnosing and treating certain illness or injuries and/or
referring individuals on for further diagnostic assessments, consultations
or treatments. If an illness or condition is chronic and for-instance
requires continuous prescription, we would typically refer individuals to
an external medical facility. However, OIST Clinic will provide care
and treatment if there is a sudden aggravation of a chronic

1
Ch20_health-and-wellness-program_20170901_en_cl

illness/condition or if the person has difficulty using an external medical
facility.
20.2.1.4 Response outside of opening hours
Outside of standard opening hours, OIST Clinic will respond to requests
from individuals provided it does not hinder our regular work.
20.2.1.5 Admission facility
OIST Clinic does not have a facility to admit patients.
20.2.1.6 Confidentiality
OIST Clinic handles personal information which may come to our
knowledge in the course of work with the utmost care. We do not release
the information without the consent from the person unless it has a
reasonable cause to do so, such as an emergency case.
20.2.2 OIST Health Center
20.2.2.1 Service
OIST Health Center provides preventive health care for all members in
the OIST community (the eligibility is defined under 1.4.1 of PRP of the
University).
20.2.2.2 Medical treatment availability
OIST Health Center does not provide medical treatment, however this
does not apply in the case of an emergency.
20.2.2.3 Eligibility
All members of the OIST community are able to receive the services,
however some services such as health checkups are only available to
certain members of the OIST community
20.2.2.4 Handling personal information
OIST Health Center handles personal information which may come to
our knowledge in the course of work with the utmost care. We do not
release the information without the consent from the person unless it has
a reasonable cause to do so, such as an emergency case.
20.2.3 Ganjuu Wellbeing Service
20.2.3.1 Purpose
Ganjuu Wellbeing Service provides services to support wellbeing of the
University and the OIST community.

2
Ch20_health-and-wellness-program_20170901_en_cl

20.2.3.2 Services provided
Ganjuu Wellbeing Service provides the following services:
• Development and support of initiatives related to wellbeing and
community
• Workshops and training related to wellbeing
• Services to teams (team building, mediation, etc.)
• Information, advice and consultation on wellbeing or
interpersonal matters, and
• Psychological therapy
20.2.3.3 Medical treatment availability
Ganjuu Wellbeing Service does not provide medical treatment.
Psychiatric and medical consultations can be arranged via the OIST
Health Center.
20.2.3.4 Language support
Services are provided in English and Japanese. Interpreting services
may be used, if available, if requested or required.
20.2.3.5 Eligibility and costs
All members of the OIST community (adults and children) are able to
receive the services, for free. The cost of interpreting services will be
borne by the Ganjuu Wellbeing Service, when deemed necessary by the
Service.
20.2.3.6 Confidentiality
The Ganjuu Wellbeing Service keeps all personal information,
confidential within the team. All clinical staff are bound by professional
practice guidelines regarding confidentiality. The Ganjuu Wellbeing
Service administrator has clear expectations and supervision from
clinical staff at the Service regarding their responsibilities for
confidentiality. Verbal or written information will not be disclosed
without permission from the person it relates to (or from their
parent/guardian if they are not able to provide informed consent), except
in the following circumstances:




If clinical staff believe that the individual or a third party is at risk
of serious harm. In this case, confidentiality is broken in order to
reduce the risk of harm by involving relevant people or services that
can provide the necessary support. Wherever possible this will be
discussed with the individual, first.
If disclosure is required by Japanese law.

3
Ch20_health-and-wellness-program_20170901_en_cl







Information relating to children 12 years and under will be shared
routinely with parents/guardians, unless there is a child protection
issue in doing so. In most cases parents or carers will need to be
involved in the intervention.
For young people, aged 13-18 years, Ganjuu Wellbeing Service will
negotiate with the young person and parents/guardians to reach an
agreement about feedback which is appropriate to the
developmental stage of the young person, and the clinical risk
involved.
For the maintenance and improvement of therapeutic services, the
management of risk, and to adhere to professional practice
guidelines, information will sometimes be shared with professional
external consultants. This information will not be personally
identifiable. Any external consultants are also bound by
professional practice guidelines pertaining to confidentiality.

20.2.3.6 Record Keeping
As part of good professional practice, the Ganjuu Wellbeing Service
keeps written records to support work with individuals, families and
groups. Individuals can request access to their own records which the
Ganjuu Wellbeing Service holds about them, however information
provided by a third party cannot be disclosed without agreement from
the third party.
Case notes are kept on paper and are stored in a locked filing cabinet
within a locked side room. Email communication may be printed out and
kept as part of the record. Files are destroyed five years after discharge,
in accordance with Japanese law for retention of medical records.
Letters and some other clinical information may be stored electronically
on a secure drive with access restricted to the Ganjuu Wellbeing Service.
Outlook calendar is used for appointment recording but people are
referenced by number, not name, to prevent accidental breaches of
confidentiality. Personal details are recorded within the individual file
and basic demographic data is collated anonymously onto a database
for service monitoring and improvement.

20.3 Responsibilities
20.3.1 OIST Clinic
20.3.1.1 Director of the OIST Clinic
4
Ch20_health-and-wellness-program_20170901_en_cl

The Dean of Research appoints a doctor as a director from the full time
doctors who belong to OIST Clinic and the director has the
responsibility to manage the clinic, ensure good governance procedures
are in place and provide supervision where required.
20.3.1.2 Custodian of cash at OIST Clinic
The Dean of Research appoints a member of staff as the custodian of
cash at OIST Clinic and the custodian takes the responsibility for cash
which OIST Clinic collects from clients based on the rules which are
defined in the following section (PRP 20.3.1.4).
20.3.1.3 Cashier at OIST Clinic
The custodian of cash at OIST Clinic shall be authorized to designate a
Cashier at OIST Clinic from among the personnel in the OIST Clinic
and mandate the personnel to engage in managing the accounting and
managing the cash which OIST Clinic collects.
20.3.1.4 Fee for medical care
OIST Clinic charges clients fees for medical care after the treatment,
based on the price list which is decided by the President of the
University (in consultation with relevant parties) (Link: Regulations of
Medical Fees in OIST Clinic). Clients who have received medical care
at the OIST Clinic have a responsibility to pay the fee for the medical
care provided in cash (Japanese yen only) to the OIST Clinic in a timely
manner.
20.3.2 OIST Health Center
20.3.2.1 OIST Health Center
OIST Health Center has responsibility to plan and manage the health
checkups which is defined in Industrial Safety and Health Act and
School Health and Safety Act.
20.3.2.2 Students and Employees
Students and employees have responsibilities to take health checkups
which are defined in Industrial Safety and Health Act.
20.3.3 Ganjuu Wellbeing Service
20.3.3.1 Ganjuu Wellbeing Service
Ganjuu Wellbeing Service complies with Japanese law, University rules
and procedures and the professional practice guidelines of the
professional bodies with which clinical staff are registered. The clinical
psychologist(s) ,who are appointed by the President to supervise staff
5
Ch20_health-and-wellness-program_20170901_en_cl

of the Ganjuu Wellbeing Service, have the responsibility to ensure good
governance procedures are in place and provide supervision as required.
20.4 Procedures
20.4.1 OIST Clinic
20.4.1.1 Opening hours
OIST Clinic open weekdays from 9:30-11:30 a.m. (Monday to Friday),
and from 13:30-15:30 p.m. on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays,
please note this may change depending on staff schedules.
OIST Clinic is closed on weekends and holidays.
20.4.1.2 Appointments
To minimize waiting times, individuals are encouraged to make an
appointment before coming to the clinic (TEL: 098-982-3446 or
clinic.appointment@oist.jp). However, this does not apply to the
emergency cases.
20.4.1.3 Fees for medical care
OIST Clinic uses a private practice charging system (health insurance
does not apply to the system). The President of the University, in
consultation with relevant parties will decide on what are reasonable
fees (Link: Regulations of Medical Fees in OIST Clinic).
20.4.1.4 Location
OIST Clinic provides medical care in B234 of Center Building.
However, this does not apply to the emergency cases.
20.4.1.5 Referral to external medical facilities
OIST Clinic will refer to specialists, hospitals, and/or medical facilities
which provides critical care if necessary.
20.4.2 OIST Health Center
20.4.2.1 Opening hours
OIST Health Center opens from 9:30-17:00 on weekdays, and is closed
on weekends and holidays. However, this does not apply during times
when the University is holding an event.
20.4.2.2 Location
OIST Health Center provides services in B236 of Center Building.
However, services may be provided elsewhere during special events
held by the University.
6
Ch20_health-and-wellness-program_20170901_en_cl

20.4.3 Ganjuu Wellbeing Service
20.4.3.1 Opening hours
Ganjuu Wellbeing Service opens from 9:00-17:30 on weekdays, and is
closed on weekends and holidays. There is no out of hours service.
Occasional services (for example workshops) may be provided at
evenings or weekends at the discretion of the Ganjuu Wellbeing Service
staff.
20.4.3.2 Appointments
Appointments can be made by contacting the Ganjuu Wellbeing Service
by telephone, email, in person or by posting a request form (available
from the Ganjuu Wellbeing Service website) into our letter box. Services
can be provided without appointment within working hours, but this is
subject to availability of clinical staff.
20.4.3.2 Location
Ganjuu Wellbeing Service is located at 128 West Court.
20.5 Forms
20.5.1 Ganjuu Wellbeing Service request form
[Link to website]
https://groups.oist.jp/sites/default/files/imce/u1479/Event/New%20Ganjuu%2
0Form%20Jun15.pdf
20.6 Contacts
20.6.1 Policy Owner
The President
20.6.2 Other contacts
OIST Clinic
OIST Health Center
Ganjuu Wellbeing Service
20.7 Definitions
20.7.1 OIST Clinic
20.7.1.1 Chronic illnesses
Diseases which require long term continuous treatment such as
hypertension, diabetes, mellitus or dyslipidemia.

7
Ch20_health-and-wellness-program_20170901_en_cl

20.7.1.2 Employees
Permanent, fixed-term and part-time employees hired by the University.
Temporary staff dispatched from an agency under an hourly-fee contract,
contractor or vendor employees are not included.
20.7.1.3 Students
Those who study in the University approved by the Graduate School
Office, stipulated in PRP 5.5.1 and 5.5.2.
20.7.1.4 Family
Spouse, parent or child of the employee and/or student, or the person in
the similar relationship above.
20.7.2 Ganjuu Wellbeing Service
20.7.2.1 OIST community
Full-time and part-time employees, students and immediate family
members. Temporary staff whose work at OIST is identical to directly
employed staff are included. Vendors and temporary staff whose place
of work can be changed by their employing agency are not included.
20.7.2.2 At risk of serious harm
Imminent risk of death or significant injury to self or another; reports of
or risk of abuse or neglect to a child.
20.7.2.3 Immediate family members
Spouse/partner and children who are living in the same household.
Exceptions may be made if the nature of a relationship is significant in
providing support to an employee or student (for example, separated
spouses/partners who share care for children, or parents who are
admitted on a visa to provide child-care). This is at the discretion of the
Ganjuu Wellbeing Service.

8
Ch20_health-and-wellness-program_20170901_en_cl

OIST Graduate University
Policies, Rules & Procedures

Chapter 21. Use of University Resources
21.1 Policy
University resources [link: 21.8.1] must be reserved for University purposes
and for those activities that further its education, research, and socioeconomic missions. University purposes include contributing to the physical
and cultural development of University students, faculty, staff and the greater
Okinawan community as well as stimulating the intellectual lives and personal
development of University students, faculty, staff, and the broader community.
21.2 General Considerations
21.2.1 University property and facilities are valuable public assets, such
that the University’s Common Spaces will be made available to the public
as well as to University personnel to serve broader community purposes.
21.2.2 University resources may never be used for personal gain as a
general rule. However, use of Common Spaces and University Vehicles
for Non-University Purpose may be permitted pursuant to the PRP
21.3.1.1 (for Common Spaces) and PRP 21.3.3.1 (for University Vehicles).
21.2.3 University resources may not be used by external persons (either
individuals or corporations) except for use by visitors whose acceptance
has been approved by the University. However, the use by external
persons may be permitted if the external person agrees to pay the
appropriate price and if the President/CEO (Vice President for Buildings
and Facility Management or Vice President for Communication and
Public Relations in the case of University’s Common Spaces; Dean of
Research in the case of University’s Research Facilities and Related
Services) authorizes the use in advance. Apart from the above, the use by
external persons may also be permitted on a contract basis if the purpose
of the use is to provide welfare programs to University students, faculty
and staff members or to entrust the work of the University.

21.2.4 University may charge internal and external users for the partial
use of the University’s buildings or use of the University’s research
facilities, vehicles or services. The usage charge for a part of the
University’s buildings, vehicles and services as well as the “appropriate
price” pursuant to the Article 21.2.3 of the PRP are stipulated separately.
1
Draft_revisional_ch21_use-of-university-resources_20170901_en_cl

The usage fee for University’s Research Facilities and the Related
Services are provided by the procedure stipulated in Article 21.3.7 of the
PRP.
21.3 Rules
21.3.1 Buildings, Facilities, Land
The University is required to maximize the efficient and effective use of
University property and facilities in order to provide appropriate, high
quality, sustainable and sufficient space and infrastructure for University
purposes and programs. See also Chapter 10, Land, Buildings and
Facilities [link: 10].
21.3.1.1 Use of Common Spaces for Non-University Purposes.
The University wishes to be a venue for activities of local
communities, staff, students, and their friends and family
members. The University will make available Common Spaces for
meetings, artistic activities, conferences and workshops, cultural
clubs, and other purposes not related to University operations.
Such use must be made through and coordinated with the
Conference and Workshop Section [link: 19] of the Division of
Communication and Public Relations to ensure there is no conflict
with scheduled University activities. With regard to use of
University Common Spaces, the University’s requirements have
priority and take precedence.
21.3.1.1.1 The University’s Common Spaces are:
On the Main Campus
-Café (Outside operating hours)
-Space for a restaurant
-Center Court
-Main Entrance Gallery
-Meeting and Seminar rooms:
Seminar room B250
Seminar room C209
Seminar room C210
-Conference Center:
Auditorium
Meeting room 1
Meeting room 2
Meeting room 3
Meeting room 4
At Seaside House
-Chura Hall
2
Draft_revisional_ch21_use-of-university-resources_20170901_en_cl

-Meeting and Seminar rooms:
Seminar room
Meeting room 1
Meeting room 2
21.3.1.1.2 Use of University Common Spaces, and of other
areas as may be determined on a case-by-case basis, for nonUniversity purposes may be permitted under the following
conditions:
21.3.1.1.2.1
The Common Space or other area
(chapter 21.4.1.3 [link: 21.4.1.3]) is available and not
being used for a University purpose or program; and
21.3.1.1.2.2 Reservations have been made and an
agreement regarding use has been developed
(Chapter 21.5.1 [link: 21.5.1] ) between the University
and the individual or non-University entity.
21.3.1.1.3 Restrictions on Use
▪ Smoking is permitted only at a designated smoking area
near the Central Control Room.
▪ Posters, flyers and other such materials must only be
placed on the noticeboards provided. No such materials
may be attached to walls, doors, windows or any other part
of the buildings, including the elevators.
▪ Waste must be disposed of in designated boxes in the
appropriate manner.
▪ Alteration to the facilities, equipment, furnishings, etc. is
not permitted unless authorized in writing in advance.
• facilities must be returned to their original condition
after use.
▪ Users will be liable for any damage or loss caused by their
use.
• The contact person [link: 21.4.1] will be held
responsible for all damage or loss
21.3.1.1.4 Prohibited uses and activities
• Commercial use or for-profit activities (this does not
include fundraising such as bake sales and rummage sales
by voluntary non-profit groups and associations)
• Political activities
• Uses that are offensive to public order and morals

3
Draft_revisional_ch21_use-of-university-resources_20170901_en_cl

•

Uses that may disturb or interfere with University
activities (noise, vibrations, and the like)

21.3.1.1.5 Permission to use Common Spaces may be revoked
by the University at any time, up to and including the date of
the reserved use.
21.3.1.2 Accommodation
Please refer to the following procedures regarding the rules for
accommodations of the university.
- Accommodation Procedure for Short-term Lodging in Campus
Housing [link: ]
21.3.2 Equipment, Information Technology, Shops and
Services
The education and research operations of the University involve
machinery and machine shops, a vast assortment of research tools and
scientific equipment, cranes and hoists, as well as workshops, work
benches, and assorted hand tools. In addition to this hardware, the
University utilizes computers, networks and electronic information
systems as well as copiers and other peripherals, facsimile machines and
other office equipment. All of these resources are essential to the
University's mission [link: 1.2]. All of these resources are reserved for
University purposes and business, and are to be used and managed
responsibly to ensure their integrity, security, and availability for
appropriate educational and business activities. All authorized users of
these resources are required to use them in an effective, efficient, safe
[link: 13] and responsible manner.
The University grants members of the University community shared
access to these resources in support of accomplishing the University's
mission. Incidental personal use is permitted if reasonable in light of the
user’s duties and responsibilities. In no case may University equipment
or services be used for private inurement or other personal gain. Use of
University computing to store personal data, information, or messages is
not permitted.
21.3.3 University Vehicles
Faculty, staff, students and persons who are invited by the University
and whose use of vehicle is approved by the University may use
University owned, leased or rented vehicles only for University business
as a general rule. However, considering the situation such as public
transportation around the University and the effective use of University
resources, it may be acceptable for persons above who do not have their
own vehicle to use University Vehicles for non-University purposes,
4
Draft_revisional_ch21_use-of-university-resources_20170901_en_cl

provided University Vehicles are available. University Vehicles must be
operated and driven in a safe and responsible manner, with awareness
that the user is acting as a representative of the University. Smoking is
not allowed in University Vehicles. Unsafe driving may result in
withdrawal of the privilege of driving University Vehicles, in addition to
other disciplinary action, up to and including termination of
employment.
All accidents involving University Vehicles must be formally reported
(Chapter 21.3.3.3[link: 21.3.3.3]).
21.3.3.1 Criteria for Permitting Use of University Vehicle.
Authorization to use a University Vehicle may be granted by the
Facility Management Section only if the applicant has a current,
valid driver’s license recognized in Japan, and the applicant states a
University purpose justifying such use as a general rule. However,
it may be acceptable for persons above who do not have their own
vehicle to use University Vehicles for non-University purposes,
provided University Vehicles are available.
21.3.3.1.1 Visiting Faculty. Visiting faculty members are not
allowed to use University Vehicles for any use other than
official University business as a general rule. However, it may
be acceptable for persons above who do not have their own
vehicle to use University Vehicles for non-University
purposes, provided University Vehicles are available.
21.3.3.2 Use of Personal Vehicle for University Business
The University may authorize drivers to use a personal or other
private vehicle for official University business. Employees who are
authorized drivers will be reimbursed by the University for
University business related expenses provided the following
conditions are met:
21.3.3.2.1 The driver must be prepared to provide proof of
personal automobile insurance for the vehicle.
21.3.3.2.2 The vehicle’s personal auto insurance provides
primary insurance as follows:
1) Body injury liability insurance: unlimited
2) Property damage liability insurance: JPY10M
or more/per accident
3) Passengers' personal accident insurance:
JPY10M or more/ per person

5
Draft_revisional_ch21_use-of-university-resources_20170901_en_cl

21.3.3.2.3 The driver is responsible for the personal auto
insurance deductible(s).
21.3.3.2.4 A University accident report (Chapter 21.3.3.3
[link: 21.3.3.3] ) must be filed if there are personal injuries to
anyone involved in the accident or if non-University property
is damaged, other than the driver’s vehicle.
21.3.3.3 Accident Reports
Drivers must complete a University Vehicle Accident Report to
report any instance of vehicle damage, including vandalism.
University insurance cannot process either liability or physical
damage claims without a completed Accident Report. The report
must be completed within ten working days of the occurrence.
Accident Reports that do not specify the date, time, location and
driver will be denied.
▪ Physical damage losses will not be reimbursed if the
Accident Report is not on file within 10 days of the
occurrence.
▪ Physical damage losses will not be reimbursed if the
damage is not repaired within 60 days of the occurrence.
▪ Liability and physical damage losses will be charged to
the driver’s division/unit if no accident report is filed.
21.3.3.3.1 Accident Resulting in Personal Injury or Death
Accidents in which there is a personal injury or death are to be
reported immediately to local law enforcement.
Drivers of a University Vehicle involved in an accident
involving bodily injuries must first and foremost see that any
one injured in the accident gets all necessary medical
attention.
• Drivers must remain at the scene of the accident
until authorized to leave by the police. To leave the
scene of the accident is a crime.
• Drivers should notify their supervisor or manager
(for staff), Dean of the Graduate School or relevant
Faculty member (for students) of the accident as
soon as possible.
• Drivers of a University Vehicle involved in an
accident must report the accident to the Facility
Management Section as soon as possible.
21.3.3.3.2 Reporting Non-Injury Accidents

6
Draft_revisional_ch21_use-of-university-resources_20170901_en_cl

Accidents in which there is no injury are also to be reported
immediately to local law enforcement. Within two working
days of a non-injury accident, drivers of a University Vehicle
must complete a University Vehicle Accident Report. Care
and diligence is to be exercised to obtain accurate information
on driver, passenger and witness names, facts, and
circumstances of the accident.
21.3.4 Personal Long-Distance Telephone Calls
University telephones (landlines and cell phones) may not be used for
personal long distance calls, unless charged to an individual's residential
telephone or personal credit card. In addition, charges for personal calls
from an off-campus phone through the operator to any University
number or credit card are not allowed.
The IT Division is responsible for monitoring the charges being made to
University phones. If any person causes an improper charge, the
University will collect the amount and deposit it in the account from
which the bill is to be paid. The supervisor, manager or the Dean of the
Graduate School (for students) is expected to take appropriate action to
see that the infraction is not repeated.
21.3.5 University Inter Office Courier, External Mail and
Related Services
University mail, courier, and printing/copying services may not be used
by employees and students for personal mail, copying, printing or
related services.
21.3.6 Gymnasium
A Gymnasium facility has been established for use by Students of the
University. This gymnasium can be used by the University’s faculty and
staff as well as family members in the same household to promote
health, in exchange for a stipulated fee. For details, please refer to “Rules
for use of the OIST Graduate University Gymnasium”[link: ].
21.3.7 Internal Cost Management Committee
The President shall decide which research facilities and services will be
charged and the usage fee chargeable, after receiving proposals from the
Internal Cost Management Committee [link:], based on suggestions from
the Section with jurisdiction over the applicable research facility or
service.
21.4 Responsibilities.
21.4.1 Persons Seeking to Use University Resources
7
Draft_revisional_ch21_use-of-university-resources_20170901_en_cl

Persons seeking to use University buildings and facilities must make
reservations and obtain any other approvals (Chapter 21.5.1 [link:
21.5.1] ).
21.4.1.1 The President or delegate shall maintain administrative
policies and procedures to implement this policy, define
permissible uses, set contracting guidelines, ensure appropriate
property and facility management, and establish scheduling
priority of University property and facility use.
21.4.1.2 Personnel responsible for making reservations must
contact the Conference and Workshop Section [link: 19] as well as
the Facility Management Section of the Division of the Vice
President for Buildings and Facility Management [link: 10], to
ensure that the space is available for the time sought and that its
use will not conflict with any other University activities.
21.4.1.3 The Vice President for Communication and Public
Relations is authorized to determine, on a case-by-case basis,
whether requested use of areas other than Common Spaces for a
non-University purpose may be permitted.
21.4.1.4
As for the External Use of Research Facilities and
Services, please contact the Open Technology Center.
21.4.2 Prospective Drivers
University Vehicle drivers must have a valid, current driver’s license
recognized in Japan.
21.4.3 Persons Seeking to Lease/Rent Vehicles for University
business
Persons seeking to lease/rent vehicles for University business must
obtain approval of the division/unit to which he/she belongs; if the
applicant is also seeking to operate such vehicles, she/he must have a
valid current driver’s license recognized in Japan.
21.4.4 Authorizers of University Vehicle Use
The Facility Management Section must authorize use of University
Vehicles in writing and must ensure that applicants for use of University
Vehicles have a current valid driver’s license recognized in Japan.
21.4.5 Drivers of University Vehicles
Drivers of University Vehicles must operate those vehicles responsibly,
8
Draft_revisional_ch21_use-of-university-resources_20170901_en_cl

safely, and in compliance of all Japanese laws applicable to the operation
of motor vehicles.
21.4.6 Drivers of University Vehicles Involved
Accidents/Collisions
Drivers of University Vehicles involved accidents/collisions must timely
complete an Accident Report (Chapter 21.3.3.3 [link: 21.3.3.3] ).
21.4.7 IT Division
The IT Division must maintain records of use of telephone and computer
and report to the user’s supervisors (or the Dean of the Graduate School
for students) any instances unusual or inappropriate use.

21.5 Procedures
21.5.1 Reserving Use of University Common Space
Reservations must be made at least 10 days prior to the desired day of
use by using the University’s online Exchange room reservation system.
Note: Reservation of Conference Center and certain other spaces can
only be made by the Conference and Workshop Section. Requests for
reservations should be made to this Section.
21.5.2 Authorization to operate a University Vehicle
To obtain authorization to operate a University Vehicle, complete and
submit a Form, Terms of Use Agreement [link: 21.6.1] to designated
person of the Facility Management Section in accordance with the
following procedures.
- Procedure for Use of University Vehicle [link: ]
21.5.3 Report of vehicular accident
To report a vehicular accident, complete and submit a Form,
University Accident Report [link: 21.6.2], to designated person of
the Facility Management Section.
21.5.4 Reservation for accommodations
Please refer to the following procedures for reservation
accommodations.
- Accommodation Procedure for Short-term Lodging in Campus
Housing [link: ]

of

21.5.5 External Use of Research Facilities and Services
Please refer to PRP 4.13 “ External Use of Research Facilities and
Services” [link:] for procedures and other related matters.
9
Draft_revisional_ch21_use-of-university-resources_20170901_en_cl

21.6 Forms
21.6.1 Terms of Use Agreement (to Operate a University
Vehicle)
Terms of Use Agreement [link: ]
21.6.2 University Accident Report
University Accident Report [link: ]
21.7 Contacts
21.7.1 Policy Owners
Vice President for Buildings and Facility Management
Vice President for Communications and Public Relations
Dean of Research
21.7.2 Other Contacts
Facility Management Section
Conference and Workshop Section
IT Division
Open Technology Center
Accounting Section
21.8 Definitions
21.8.1 University resources
University resources includes all University property, buildings, facilities,
and land, as well as the University’s voice and data communications
systems and devices, information technology and software, networking
services, electronic communications forums, the University’s equipment
(including but not limited to vehicles, computers and peripherals,
research tools and instruments, appliances, machinery, machine shops,
and furniture), and the University’s procurement tools, such as
purchasing cards and petty cash.
Additionally, the time and effort of staff, students, and others carrying
out transactions on behalf of the University are considered “University
Resources.”

10
Draft_revisional_ch21_use-of-university-resources_20170901_en_cl

OIST Graduate University
Policies, Rules, & Procedures
Authority: Approved by the President

Chapter 22 Avoiding Conflicts of Interest and
Commitment
22.1 Policy.
In addition to their duties as faculty, academic and administrative staff, and
the University Officers and other Senior Level Executives (collectively referred
to as “employees” in this chapter) of OIST Graduate University (hereinafter
“the University”) often serve on external committees, commissions, panels,
and boards of directors. The more entrepreneurial among them engage in
private consulting or other business activity. University employees also
support a variety of social, community, and political causes. Moreover, in the
course of their official duties, employees develop relationships with vendors,
research sponsors, donors, and others who contribute to or support the
University.
It is the policy of the University to encourage all of these endeavors and
relationships. However, care must be taken to ensure that none gives rise to
conflicts of commitment or interest. The matters covered in this policy are of
great importance to the University. Each member of the University
community has a responsibility to avoid and prevent conflicts of interest and
to take steps to avoid even the appearance of impropriety.
Responsibility for review and ultimate resolution of conflict of interest matters
is vested in the Chief Compliance Officer (hereinafter “CCO); a four-person
panel, comprised of University General Counsel, CCO, and two faculty
members appointed by the Dean of Faculty Affairs.(known as the “Conflict of
Interest Review Panel”) will assess the facts and report their findings and
recommendation to the Chief Operating Officer (hereinafter “COO”) for
decision. As a general rule, conflicts of interest determinations are based on
what potential outcomes are made possible by the situation, rather than on
the character, intent, or actions of the employee. However, a finding that an
employee willfully ignored or intentionally violated the policies and rules of
Chapter 22 requires that the employee be subjected to disciplinary action
including significant sanction or possible termination of employment. See
also Misconduct & Whistleblower Protection [link: 23].
The following policies (and related rules [link: 22.3] and procedures [link:
22.5]) should guide all University employees as they carry out their work at
the University.
1
ch22_avoiding-conflict-of-interests-&-commitment_en_20180401_cl

22.1.1 Conflict of Commitment
Because faculty and other University employees owe a duty of primary
commitment to the University and its missions, it is the policy of the
University that the external activities and engagements of employees
may not demand so much of their time, effort, or attention that their
ability to satisfy their obligations to the University is adversely affected.
(Chapter 22.8.1[link: 22.8.1])
22.1.2 Institutional Conflict of Interest
University research, teaching, outreach, and other activities must not
be compromised or be perceived as biased by institutional relationships
with external entities. The existence (or appearance) of such conflicts
can lead to actual bias, or suspicion about possible bias, in the review
or conduct of the University’s business activities. It is the policy of the
University that situations that may give rise to such conflicts be
disclosed, evaluated, and discontinued if a conflict interest or
commitment is present. This is necessary to prevent decisions, choices
or actions that are incongruent with the missions, obligations, or values
of the University. (Chapter 22.8.5[link: 22.8.5])
22.1.3 Individual Conflict of Interest
When there is a divergence between an individual's private interests
and his or her professional obligations to the University, such that an
independent observer might reasonably question whether the
individual's professional actions or decisions are determined by
considerations of personal gain, financial or otherwise, an Individual
Conflict of Interest arises. It is the policy of the University that
situations that might create conflicts be disclosed to and evaluated by
the appropriate office as soon as they are known. If an actual or
perceived conflict of interest or commitment is found, the relationship
or activity must be discontinued. (Chapter 22.8.4[link: 22.8.4])
22.1.3.1 Employing Related Parties
It is the policy of the University to seek for its faculty the best
possible teachers and scholars who are judged to be so in an
international search preceding each appointment (Chapter 3
[link: 3]). Similarly, it is the policy of the University for its
academic and administrative staff the best qualified persons for
the position through competitive selection process (Chapter
31.3.2 [link: 31.3.2]). There are no bars to the appointment of
“related parties” [link: 22.8.6], such as immediate family
members, business partners, and close personal friends, to any
University position, so long as each meets the relevant standard
2
ch22_avoiding-conflict-of-interests-&-commitment_en_20180401_cl

for appointment. However, no faculty member, or any other
University employee shall vote, make recommendations, or in
any other way participate in the decision of any matter which
may directly affect the appointment, reappointment, tenure (for
a faculty member), promotion, salary, or other status or interest
of a related party, nor shall he or she supervise a related party.
22.1.3.2 Doing Business with Related Parties
University employees must not conduct University business with
related parties [link: 22.8.6] such as immediate family members,
business partners, and close personal friends. University
employees must not conduct University business with an entity
in which a related party has a significant interest. University
employees must not lease or purchase, on behalf of the
University, real property in which a related party holds an
ownership interest.
22.1.3.3
Individual Conflict of Interest Concerning Student
Admission
Faculty members who involve in student admission may have a
conflict of interest. The policy, rules and procedures for such
cases are provided by the Chapter 5, Graduate School Handbook
(Chapter 5.13.1.6 [link: 5.13.1] ).
22.1.4 Consulting and Other Business, Commercial or
Financial Relationships
The University believes that it is good and useful for faculty and other
professional employees to deploy their expertise through
entrepreneurial activity, such as providing consulting or other services
to individuals, business entities, other universities, and the community.
However, employees must be alert to the fact that implicit in activities
of a commercial nature are conflicts of interest arising from access to
confidential information (the University’s and the commercial entity’s)
and the possible ability to influence pertinent decisions of either entity.
It is the policy of the University that such situations be disclosed to and
evaluated by the appropriate office as soon as they are known. If an
actual or perceived conflict of interest or commitment is found, the
relationship or activity must be discontinued.
22.1.4.1 Employees may not engage in any outside business if it
interferes with their responsibilities to the University. Faculty
are generally granted leave to pursue such outside work
(Chapter 3 [link: 3] ). Other employees are required to pursue
such work outside their normal working hours or by using
3
ch22_avoiding-conflict-of-interests-&-commitment_en_20180401_cl

accrued leave/vacation (Chapter 33 [link: 33]) with prior
approval in accordance with OIST Rules for External
Professional Activities [link: ].
22.1.5 External Professional Activities
It is the policy of the University to encourage its employees to
contribute to society at large by serving on committees, commissions,
advisory boards, boards of directors, task forces and other similar
associations. It is also the policy of the University to require disclosure
of, and to review, all such external engagements in order to detect and
avoid potential conflicts of commitment or interest and other similar
concerns, including the involvement of University resources[link: 21] in
otherwise personal activities.
22.1.6 Political Activity
Although the University encourages its employees at all levels to
participate in the full spectrum of permissible political activities, both
locally and nationally, it is University policy that no University
endorsement may be implied or asserted by its employees when so
doing (Chapter 15 [link: 15] ). Similarly, it is the policy of the
University to forbid use of University resources, including their paid
work time or the paid work time of other University employees, to
support personal political activity (Chapter 21 [link: 21] ). Attention
must be given also to the Policy on Conflict of Commitment [link:
22.1.1] to ensure that outside political activity does not demand so
much of an employee’s time, effort, or attention that their ability to
satisfy their obligations to the University is adversely affected.
22.1.6.1 Permissible Political Activities
Campaigning for Public Office. Although prior approval is not
required, it is the policy of the University that its employees
contemplating candidacy for elective political office or
appointment to public office should contact their responsible
administrator/supervisor to discuss potential conflicts and work
impact.
22.1.6.2 Prohibited & Restricted Political Activities
It is the policy of the University that its University Officers,
Senior Level Executives and other employees do not influence
inappropriately any decisions by national and local government
officials, and that its University Officers, Senior Level Executives
and other employees refrain from conduct creating even an
appearance of trying to influence inappropriately any decisions
by national and local government officials.
4
ch22_avoiding-conflict-of-interests-&-commitment_en_20180401_cl

22.2 Examples of Conflicts of Interest
It is essential that all University employees recognize, disclose, and avoid all
conflicts of interest and commitment. Although the variations are endless,
here are examples of how conflicts of interest may arise:
22.2.1 Major Gifts from Commercial Sponsors.
Significant gifts [link: 22.8.3] to the University from a commercial
sponsor of research may raise questions about the influence of the
company on the University’s research programs and how they are
managed. Other similar concerns arise when individual companies
sponsor research or provide significant consulting income to a
significant number of faculty members.
22.2.1.1 Gifts, or promise of gifts, in exchange for favorable terms
on a technology license, or first look at IP create a conflict of
interest.
22.2.1.2
Alumni venture funds that provide for a portion of
revenue to be “contributed” to the University must be carefully
scrutinized for creating conflict of interest conditions – whether
real or perceived.
22.2.2 Procurement of Goods and Services from Entities in
which the University has a Financial Interest.
Purchasing goods and services from entities that sponsor research at the
University, or who are licensees of University technology, or who make
significant contributions to University activities and endeavors, can
sometimes give rise to a conflict of interest situation; these should be
carefully scrutinized and evaluated; if it is determined to proceed, a
written justification should be obtained.
22.2.3 Acceptance of Gifts & Favors from Others
Those doing business with the University, or wishing to do business with
the University, may offer gifts [link: 22.8.3] (any item of personal benefit
to the recipient) to University employees. These may range from the
offer of a box of candy to paying for the employee’s dinner to an allexpenses-paid trip to a resort (to give a “talk”). Exorbitant honoraria,
extremely generous speaker’s fees, luxury travel and accommodations,
gifts of expensive equipment, or other lavish treatment may be offered by
research sponsors and by vendors, and the items offered are often
characterized as “in support of” the employee’s University activities. All
such favors create impermissible conflicts of interest.
However, we may accept “promotional goods or commemoratives to be
widely distributed” such as pocket tissues, calendar, memo-booklet,
5
ch22_avoiding-conflict-of-interests-&-commitment_en_20180401_cl

ballpoint pen free sample of research materials which are deemed
reasonable under normal social conventions.
22.2.3.1 You may accept gifts & favors of not more than 5,000
yen from universities or institutions which you do not have any
conflict of interests with, without filing a report; however, if you
accept gifts & favors from universities or institutions that exceed
5,000 yen, you must submit a Report of Gifts & Favors [link:] to
CCO.
22.2.4 Financial Interests Related to Licensing of University
Technology.
The University has an active program to license its inventions to
commercial entities (Chapter 14 [link: 14] ). Under these licenses the
University typically acquires a Financial Interest in successfully
developed products and, sometimes, in the developing entity itself. These
Financial Interests can be of concern when they may appear to influence
decisions about the conduct of research, teaching or other activities. For
example, even where individual investigators do not have a personal
stake, knowledge that the University stands to gain financially from
successful development of a licensed technology can influence the
direction of related research, the objectivity of research, the
dissemination of results and the allocation of University resources
among competing projects. The potential for conflict increases where the
licensee sponsors research at the University. In such situations, the
University’s Financial Interests under the license may appear to affect
decisions concerning the terms or conduct of the sponsored research.
22.2.4.1 Equity Interests in Start-up Companies. In licenses to
start-up companies the University may accept equity in lieu of
licensing fees or in exchange for reduced royalties. From a
financial viewpoint, the potential gain from holding equity may
far exceed the potential return from a royalty-only license. The
potential for significant gain, and the possibility that it may be
realized long before any product comes to market, increases the
possibility that such an equity interest may influence or may
appear to influence University decisions about research that
could affect the value of the University’s equity position. Such
arrangements must be fully disclosed and must be carefully
scrutinized to ensure that research decisions are not influenced
by the University’s potential for realizing financial gain.
22.2.4.2 University employees hired specifically to encourage
faculty start-ups (for example, to seek broker financial
6
ch22_avoiding-conflict-of-interests-&-commitment_en_20180401_cl

relationships with fledgling enterprises) create special exposure
for universities and the perception of Institutional Conflicts of
Interest. It is critical that these activities be reported and
assiduously monitored to prevent conflicts of interest.
22.2.5 Master Agreements with a Commercial Sponsor.
Based on known research strengths, private sector entities may offer
long-term funding support for research conducted within specific
disciplines. This type of support, often governed by a master agreement,
may attempt to give special preferences to the sponsoring entity. Such
agreements must be carefully reviewed by those not involved in the
carrying out of the agreement in order to prevent any inappropriate
preference or other conflict of interest.
22.2.6 Advisory Committees and Collaborative Arrangements
with Commercial Entities.
Participation in collaborative agreements, advisory committees, research
review panels and similar associations often provides special access to
research results. These arrangements, and the contracts or agreements
that support them, must be scrutinized to ensure that they do not include
provisions that will give rise to, or create the appearance of, conflicts.
22.2.7 Research Involving the Use of Human Subjects.
The University has special responsibilities to participants in human
subjects research and must ensure that its financial relationships do not
compromise its primary obligations to them. For this reason, the
research must be subjected to close scrutiny to prevent even the
appearance of a conflict of interest. Please refer to Chapter 13 [link:
13.3.12] for other matters concerning research involving the use of
human subjects.
22.2.8 Access to Closely-Held Information.
University Senior Level Executives and University Officers, members of
the Boards of Councilors and Governors, and other University employees,
in the course of meeting their obligations and duties to the University,
may get early knowledge of new technologies and other significant
developments. Some of these same members may hold a management
role or board seat on companies’ Board of Directors that are looking to
contribute to major developments, to license technology, or to sponsor
research at the University. Use of such information for private
inurement gives rise to ethical questions and a conflict of interest. Use
for personal purposes of information received as an employee of the
University is forbidden.
7
ch22_avoiding-conflict-of-interests-&-commitment_en_20180401_cl

22.3 Rules
All those working for, or on behalf of, the University must conduct their affairs
so as to avoid conflicts of commitment and interest, or even the appearance of
such conflicts.
22.3.1 Annual Disclosure
To facilitate evaluation of situations that may give rise to conflicts of
interest, formal written disclosure [link: 22.5.1] of external activities
and commitments is required of all full-time University employees each
year. All full-time University employees must timely complete and
submit an annual “Conflicts of Interest Disclosure Form for External
Activities” [link: 22.6] to the CCO.
22.3.2 Immediate Disclosure Requirement. If a situation raising
questions of conflict of commitment or interest arises after submission
of the annual disclosure, those involved must immediately bring the
situation to the attention of designated personnel in the Compliance
Section (University Officers and Senior Level Executives), the Faculty
Affairs Office (faculty and academic staff), or Compliance Section
(other employees).
22.3.3 Additional Special Disclosures Required of Faculty and
Academic Staff
22.3.3.1 Faculty and Academic Staff must foster the open and
timely exchange of results of scholarly activities, informing
students and colleagues about outside obligations that might
influence the free exchange of scholarly information.
22.3.3.2 Faculty and Academic Staff must disclose on a timely
basis the creation or discovery of all potentially patentable
inventions created or discovered in the course of their University
activities or with more than incidental use of University
resources. Ownership of such inventions must be assigned to the
University regardless of the source of funding. The inventor
must share in royalties earned.
22.3.3.3 In addition to disclosure to the Faculty Affairs Office,
Faculty and Academic Staff must disclose in writing to their
supervisor, or to the principal investigator on their research,
whether they (or Related Parties [link: 22.8.6]) have consulting
arrangements, significant Financial Interests, or employment in
an outside entity which provides funding to the University or is
8
ch22_avoiding-conflict-of-interests-&-commitment_en_20180401_cl

involved in procurement or technology licensing relationships
with the University.
22.3.3.4 In any situations in which the objectivity of an
Academic Staff or faculty member could reasonably be
questioned as subject to a Conflict of Interest, the affected
employee must contact the Faculty Affairs Office for review and
determination of appropriate actions.
22.3.4 Political Activity
University employees may not use the University’s names or marks
(Chapter 15 [link: 15]), must not imply University endorsement, and
may not use any University resources in political activity or in
individual campaigns for office or in political literature. Employees
campaigning or fundraising for or holding public office must comply
with University policies regarding use of University resources [link:
21.1] (equipment, services, facilities, property, and their or other
employees’ paid work time).
22.3.4.1 Campaigning for Public Office. Discussion with a
supervisor is required if the duties of a campaign or the holding
of an office would seriously interfere or conflict with the
fulfillment of the employee’s University responsibilities,
including hours of work. The discussion should focus on (1) the
degree to which the individual would be absent from work
and/or the activities related to the employee’s candidacy would
interfere with the performance of his or their regular duties; (2)
whether temporary suspension of some portion of the
employee's responsibilities can be reasonably accommodated
without imposing a significant resource burden on the
employee's division/office or research unit; and (3) how the
absence might be most effectively accommodated.
22.3.5 Related Parties
22.3.5.1
University employees may not vote, make
recommendations, or in any other way participate in the
decision of any matter which may directly affect the
appointment, reappointment, tenure (for a faculty member),
promotion, salary, or other status or interest of related parties
[link: 22.8.6] and may not supervise related parties.

9
ch22_avoiding-conflict-of-interests-&-commitment_en_20180401_cl

22.3.5.2 University employees may not conduct University
business with vendors owned or operated by a related party
[link: 22.8.6] .
22.3.5.3 University employees may not conduct University
business with an entity in which a significant interest is held or
owned by a related party [link: 22.8.6] .
22.3.5.4 The University may not lease or purchase real property
owned by a University employee or by a member of that
employee’s related party [link: 22.8.6] .
22.3.6 Gratuities and Favors
University employees may not accept gifts, trips, meals, or other similar
blandishments and inducements from those doing business, or wishing
to do business, with the University at any level and to any degree. This
prohibition affects sponsors of research as well as vendors.
22.3.7 Purchases from Entities in which the University has a
Financial Interest
Review by and advance approval from the Vice President for Financial
Management is required for procurement of goods and services from
entities that sponsor research at the University, that are licensees of
University technology, or who are major contributors to University
activities.
22.3.8 I.P. Licensing, Master Agreements for Sponsored
Research, Research Collaboration with Commercial Entities
Review for conflicts of interest by University General Counsel is
required before entering into I.P. licensing agreements, master
agreements with commercial sponsors, or any other agreements
providing special access to research (advisory panels, collaboration
agreements, review by external committees, and similar researchrelated arrangements).
22.3.9 Confidential, Business-Confidential & Closely-held
(Inside) Information
It is forbidden to use confidential, business-confidential and closelyheld or similar inside information received as an employee of the
University for personal purposes.
22.4 Responsibilities
22.4.1 All employees
10
ch22_avoiding-conflict-of-interests-&-commitment_en_20180401_cl

All employees must observe the policies set out at 22.1[link: 22.1] and
comply with all the rules set out at 22.3[link: 22.3];
22.4.1.1 All full-time University employees must complete and
submit a Conflict of Interest Disclosure Form for External
Activities annually; and
22.4.1.2 All full-time University employees with a new conflict
must immediately disclose and discuss with a supervisor as well
as contacting the Compliance Section (University Officers and
Senior Level Executives), the Faculty Affairs Office (faculty and
academic staff), or Compliance Section (other employees).
22.4.2 All supervisors
All supervisors must instruct employees regarding the content of this
chapter.
22.4.2.1 All supervisors must monitor employee activities with
regard to receipt of gifts/favors from vendors and sponsors,
employment of and transactions involving related parties, use of
inside information, purchases of goods and services from
research sponsors, and employment of and purchases from
“related parties [link: 22.8.6] ”.
22.4.3 Employees at any level campaigning for public office
Employees at any level campaigning for public office must advise his or
her supervisor.
22.4.4 Academic Staff and Faculty
Academic Staff and Faculty must make additional disclosures set out at
22.3.3[link: 22.3.3].
22.4.5 The Dean of Faculty Affairs and the CCO
The Dean of Faculty Affairs, for faculty and academic staff, and the
CCO, for all other employees, must establish procedures to assure
compliance with annual disclosure and other Conflict of Interest
reporting requirements, provide initial review of disclosed situation,
and report to the COO for its final review when it finds the situation
that might create conflict of interests or commitments.
22.4.6 The COO
The COO must establish and staff a “Conflict of Interest Review Panel”
comprised of the General Counsel, the COO, and two faculty members.
The COO is responsible for making determination of appropriate
11
ch22_avoiding-conflict-of-interests-&-commitment_en_20180401_cl

actions regarding conflict of interests or commitments, hearing report
and recommendation by the panel. In addition, the COO, for University
Officers and executives, must establish procedures to assure
compliance with annual disclosure and other Conflict of Interest
reporting requirements, provide review of disclosed situation, and
report to the Board of Governors when it deems necessary.
22.4.7 The Conflict of Interest Review Panel
The “Conflict of Interest Review Panel” (the General Counsel, the CCO,
and two faculty members appointed by the COO) in the office of the
COO will assess the facts and report their findings and
recommendation to the COO for decision.
22.4.8 The General Counsel
In addition to serving on the COO’s “Conflict of Interest Review Panel,”
the General Counsel must review research-related agreements and
arrangements for impermissible special provisions and other potential
conflicts of interest.
22.5 Procedures
22.5.1 annual disclosure process
22.5.1.1 faculty, administrative staff, other employees
22.5.1.2 University Officers, other Senior Level Executives
22.5.2 immediate disclosure process - new conflict
22.5.3 special academic staff disclosures
22.6 Forms
Conflict of Interest Disclosure Form for External Activities
Special faculty academic staff disclosures
Application/Approval for External Professional Activities
22.7 Contacts
22.7.1 Policy Owner
The COO, the CCO and the Dean of Faculty Affairs
22.7.2 Other Contacts
The Faculty Affairs Office:
Compliance Section:
12
ch22_avoiding-conflict-of-interests-&-commitment_en_20180401_cl

22.8 Definitions
22.8.1 Conflict of Commitment
If the external activities and engagements of employees demand or
consume so much of their time, effort, or attention that their ability to
satisfy their obligations to the University is adversely affected, a
Conflict of Commitment exists.
22.8.2 Financial Interest
Financial Interest is an actual or foreseeable nontrivial financial benefit
resulting from a decision.
22.8.3 Gift
For purposes of this chapter, a “gift” is any gratuity, favor, discount,
entertainment, hospitality, loan, forbearance, service, training,
transportation, lodging, meals, or other item that constitutes a personal
benefit to the recipient, which is offered/given by anyone doing
business with the University or desiring to do business with the
University, including sponsors of research. A gift to a family member of
a University official or a gift to any other individual based on that
individual's relationship with a University official, may be considered a
“gift” for purposes of this chapter if it is given with the knowledge and
acquiescence of the University employee and if the University employee
has reason to believe the gift was given because of the recipient's
University status. The word “gift” as used in this Chapter does not
include any gift (contribution, donation, bequest) made to the
University as described in Chapter 7, Fundraising [link: 7.8].
22.8.4 Individual Conflict of Interest
When there is a divergence between an individual's private interests
and his or her professional obligations to the University, such that an
independent observer might reasonably question whether the
individual's professional actions or decisions are determined by
considerations of personal gain, financial or otherwise, there is an
Individual Conflict of Interest. An individual conflict of interest
depends on the situation, and not on the character or actions of the
individual.
22.8.5 Institutional Conflicts of Interest
An Institutional Conflict of Interest may occur when the University,
any of its University Officers, Senior Level Executives, members of the
Board of Governors, or a graduate school, division, or other sub-unit,
or an affiliated foundation or organization, has an external relationship
13
ch22_avoiding-conflict-of-interests-&-commitment_en_20180401_cl

with or Financial Interest in an entity that itself has a Financial Interest
in University projects, research, or business transactions. University
Officers, Senior Level Executives or members of the Boards of
Governors may also have conflicts when they serve on the boards of (or
otherwise have an official relationship with) organizations that have
significant commercial transactions with the University. The existence
(or appearance) of such conflicts can lead to actual bias, or suspicion
about possible bias, in the review or conduct of research at the
University. If they are not evaluated or managed, they may result in
choices or actions that are incongruent with the missions, obligations,
or the values of the University.
22.8.6 Related Parties
For the purpose of this policy and chapter, “related parties” include,
but are not limited to, an employee’s immediate family members
(parents, siblings, spouses, children, other relatives within third degree
of kinship), persons living in the same the home/residence as the
employee, persons with whom the employee has a close personal
friendship, and persons with whom the employee has a business
partnership or association.
22.8.7 University Officers
University Officers for purposes of this chapter are persons performing
in the following capacities:
 President/CEO,
 Vice CEO, and
 Auditors.
22.8.8 Senior Level Executives
University Senior Level Executives are defined in Chapter 30.2.2.1.1 of
the PRP.
 Executive Vice President for Technology Development and
Innovation,
 Provost,
 COO,
 Vice President,
 Dean (including Dean of Faculty Affairs and Dean of the
Graduate School),
 General Counsel, and
 Any other person designated by the President/CEO
22.8.9 Academic Staff
Academic Staff for purposes of this chapter are persons performing in
the following capacities:
14
ch22_avoiding-conflict-of-interests-&-commitment_en_20180401_cl






Postdoctoral Scholars,
Research Scientists,
Technical Staff working in a research unit, and
Any other position for academic and/or scientific activities of the
University.

15
ch22_avoiding-conflict-of-interests-&-commitment_en_20180401_cl

Policies, Rules and Procedures
Authority:
 Approved by the President/CEO
 Whistleblower Protection Act

Chapter 23 Investigation and Determination of
Misconduct & Whistleblower Protection
23.1 Policy
Misconduct [link: 23.7.6] subject to this Chapter includes any activity
undertaken by anyone affiliated with OIST Graduate University (University),
including, without limitation, officers, employees, students, vendors, and
contractors that violates applicable Japanese legal or regulatory provisions, or
violates Bylaws, University Rules, Policies, Rules, and Procedures (PRPs)
(collectively, “non-compliance”) and misconduct in research activities by these
people. The scope of non-compliance includes public research fund misuse.
Besides this Chapter, the University’s Code of Conduct [link: 1.4] and Research
Ethics, Compliance and Prevention of Conflict of Interest [link: 4.7], Operation
and Management of Public Research [link: 4.11], Avoiding Conflicts of Interest
and Commitment [link: 22], and Resolving Complaints & Disputes [link: 39]
should be reviewed for additional guidance.
All officers, employees and students, who are the members of the University,
are responsible for maintaining the highest ethical standards. To protect the
integrity of the University community, and to ensure the highest standards of
conduct by and among members of the University community, the University
will investigate, in accordance with the rules set forth in this chapter, any
alleged misconduct by faculty, employees, students, vendors, contractors and
others having dealings with the University.
Any University officers, employees, students, vendors, and contractors found to
have engaged in misconduct will be subject to disciplinary action by the
University, up to and including termination of position or employment (officers
and employee), expulsion (students), cancellation of contractual relationship
(vendors and contractors), and civil or criminal prosecution if warranted.
23.1.1 Whistleblower Protection Policy
The University will not tolerate retaliatory action against any employee or
student for making a good faith report of potential or suspected
misconduct [link: 23.7.6]. Similarly, the University will not tolerate any
direct or indirect use (or attempted use) of official authority or official
influence [link: 23.7.7] for the purpose of interfering with the rights of an
employee or a student to make a Protected Disclosure [link: 23.7.8].
1
ch23_misconduct-and-whistleblower-protection_en_20180401_cl

23.2 Rules
23.2.1

Reporting Misconduct

23.2.1.1 All members of the University are strongly encouraged to
report any perceived misconduct if they believe or suspect that the
misconduct has taken place. Reports may be made to a senior
member (or the supervising faculty member or the Dean of the
Graduate School for students) of the person who is suspected to have
committed the misconduct, or via the contact points listed in Table
1. Any person other than the University member may make a report
via the external contact point shown in Table 1. Procedures for
making a report are set forth in 23.4.1.1 below.
23.2.1.2 A report of a suspected misconduct made by anyone shall
be in good faith, based on objective and rational grounds. A
groundless report for defaming the respondent or that is driven by
bad faith (which means a will solely directed to causing a damage on
the respondent, such as for causing harm to the respondent or for
obstructing the research carried out by the respondent, or for
creating disadvantage for the entity or organization that the
respondent belongs to) or a report based on an identical or a similar
content (ex: any report with an identical or similar factual
background claimed in the previous report, or any report on the
investigation regarding the previous report) shall not be made.
23.2.1.3 All officers and employees who are involved with the
process of handling reports, from the receipt of a report to the
completion of investigation, shall strictly maintain confidentiality of
information pertaining to concerned parties including the
whistleblower.
23.2.2 Investigation
23.2.2.1 When a report of suspected misconduct is received, it will
be taken up as a case of one of the misconduct categories and
verification of facts and circumstances will commence in accordance
with the procedures for the applicable category:
Procedures for investigation of non-compliance are set forth in
23.4.2, procedures for investigation of public research fund misuse
are set forth in 23.4.3, and procedures for investigation of Specified
Research Misconduct are set forth in 23.4.4. For investigation of
misconduct in research activities other than Specified Research
2
ch23_misconduct-and-whistleblower-protection_en_20180401_cl

Misconduct [link: 23.7.6.2.1] such as duplicate submissions and
inappropriate authorship, 23.4.4 will apply mutatis mutandis to the
procedures as necessary.
In addition, when the countermeasures to the relevant report are
clearly provided in the PRP and other regulations, the said report
may be assigned to the division/section in charge. In this case, the
original contact point shall notify the reporter regarding the
assignment to the relevant division/section.
23.2.2.2 Any person subject to the concerned whistleblowing or
has an interest in the investigated case shall not be involved in the
investigation ; provided, however, this shall not apply if it is under
exceptional circumstances.
23.2.2.3 Results of investigation shall be reported to the
President/CEO (and to the Board of Governors and Auditors, if there
is any potentially serious non-compliance with legal or regulatory
provisions). This report shall be made directly to the Board of
Governors and Auditors, if the President/CEO has an interest in the
concerned whistleblowing ; provided, however, this shall not apply
if it is under exceptional circumstances.
23.2.2.4 Also, a case brought to the University's attention by means
other than a report, such as by a consultation without a clear
indication or a willingness of making a report, or by media coverage
or findings from external agency such as the Board of Audit, or by an
indication of suspected specified research misconduct made by the
scientific community such as an academic society or by information
of suspected specified research misconduct posted on a website, may
also be handled by the same procedures that handle cases initiated
by a report.
23.2.3 Retaliation Complaint
23.2.3.1 Any whistleblower who experiences retaliatory action for
making a good faith report of potential or suspected misconduct, or
who has been the subject of direct or indirect use or attempted use
of official authority or official influence [link: 23.7.7] for the purpose
of interfering with his or her right to make a Protected Disclosure
[link: 23.7.8], may file a Retaliation Complaint [link: 23.7.9] to the
Chief Operating Officer (hereinafter referred to as "COO").
23.2.3.2 The Whistleblower Protection Policy [link: 23.1.1] shall
apply to any retaliation complaint filed by whistleblowers, attempted
3
ch23_misconduct-and-whistleblower-protection_en_20180401_cl

whistleblowers or employees or members who have refused to obey
an Illegal Order [link: 23.7.5].
23.2.3.3 The University will take whatever action is necessary to
prevent and correct violations of this Whistleblower Protection
Policy, in accordance with applicable laws and regulations and
University PRPs.
23.2.3.4 The COO conducts an investigation to verify the facts and
circumstances which constitute the cause of a specific Retaliation
Complaint.
23.2.4 Any individual who files a Groundless Report or Complaint
[link: 23.7.4] is not subject to protection under the University’s
Whistleblower Protection Policy [link: 23.1.1].
23.3 Responsibilities
23.3.1 All Employees and Students
All employees and students are required to report any non-compliance
with the University policies as well as Japanese laws, regulations, rules or
regulatory controls which apply to activities of the University, based on a
rational ground and in good faith. Also, employees and students are
expected to be truthful and cooperative in an investigation regarding
suspected misconduct.
All employees and students are required to complete the orientation
programs before they start working at the University, and also attend
periodical training sessions to ensure compliance with the rules
concerning appropriate use of research funds including operating expense
subsidy and competitive research funding. In the course of these
compliance training sessions, employees are asked to sign a form to
confirm their understanding and agreement to observe the rules that
apply to the University.
23.3.2 President/CEO
The President/CEO is the Chief Administrative Officer for all aspects of
the prevention and investigation of misconduct. The President/CEO will
fully inform employees and students that they have responsibility to
report misconduct and where the contact points for reporting. Also, the
President/CEO shall promptly review reported cases and draw a
conclusion.
23.3.3 Dean of Faculty Affairs and Provost
The Dean of Faculty Affairs is the General Administrative Officer over the
4
ch23_misconduct-and-whistleblower-protection_en_20180401_cl

response and investigation of the public research fund misuse, and is a
contact point for reporting the public research fund misuse. The Provost
is the General Administrative Officer over the response and investigation
of the misconduct in research activities, and is a contact point for
reporting the misconduct in research activities. Also, under the
instruction of the President/CEO, the Dean of Faculty Affairs and the
Provost provide instructions to relevant departments and offices and
makes inquiry to verify details of a reported case.
23.3.4 COO
The COO is a contact point for whistleblowing concerning any activity that
violates Japanese laws or regulations, Bylaws, University Rules or PRPs
(excluding those relating to public research fund misuse, harassment and
other disputes) and is in charge of investigation. Also, the COO is in charge
of responses to Retaliation Complaints, and administration of contact
points for confidential or anonymous reporting (hotline). Also, the COO
coordinates relevant departments and offices to ensure that they handle
reports in compliance with predetermined procedures and cooperate with
each other, and, further, responds to concerns about retaliation or unfair
treatment against whistleblowers who have reported misconduct, in
cooperation with the people in charge of the concerned case. If there is any
potentially serious non-compliance with legal or regulatory provisions,
the COO will coordinate communication between the President/CEO, the
Board of Governors and Auditors.
23.4 Procedures
23.4.1

Procedures for Reporting Misconduct

23.4.1.1 A report of misconduct may be made to a person who is a
supervisor of the suspected person or a contact point listed below.
Supervisors include the following people:
 When an employee is subject to the whistleblowing: A senior
employee in the employee's office or department;
 When a student is subject to the whistleblowing: The student's
academic supervisor or the Dean of the Graduate School; and
 When a faculty member is subject to the whistleblowing: The
Dean of Faculty Affairs.
Table 1: Contact points of report of misconduct
Contact Points
Internal

Case Category
Non-compliance

External
Misconduct
Report Hotline

COO

5
ch23_misconduct-and-whistleblower-protection_en_20180401_cl

Compliance Section Manager
Dean of Faculty Affairs

Public research
fund misuse

Misconduct in
research
activities

Misuse of open-recruitment type
research funding may also be reported
to the Grants and Research
Collaborations Section Manager or the
Business Development Section
Manager.

[Link:
Misconduct
Report
Hotline]

Provost
Provost office

*Conflicts of interest [Link: 22] may be reported to the COO or the
Compliance Section Manager, and Harassment and Personnel
Dispute [Link: 39] may be reported to the AVPHR or the RWAH
Hotline [Link: TBP].
23.4.1.1.1 Whistleblowers may report suspected misconduct to
the listed contact points by email, in writing, or by phone. It is
recommended to use the Whistleblower Report [Link: 23.5.1] as
much as possible in order to promptly implement the
investigation.
23.4.1.1.2 As a basic rule, a report shall be made by identifying
the name of the whistleblower, and only a report that describes
details of the case, such as who has committed the suspected
misconduct, what kind of misconduct is committed, and a
rational ground, will be officially received.
23.4.1.1.3 Notwithstanding 23.4.1.1.2, whistleblowers may
report suspected misconduct anonymously by email, in writing
or by phone through the University's Misconduct Report Hotline
above. The hotline is taken care of by an external entity in order
to maintain confidentiality. The University will handle any
anonymous report received by the Hotline in accordance with
the equivalent procedures for reports made by identified
whistleblowers, taking account of the contents of the case.
23.4.1.1.4 When a contact point has received a report
concerning significant misconduct, it shall promptly notify
thereof to the COO, the Dean of Faculty Affairs and the Provost.
23.4.1.1.5 When the contact point finds that the University is
not an entity to conduct investigation of the reported case, it will
forward the report to an entity that is the investigatory
organization. The University will handle any report of suspected
6
ch23_misconduct-and-whistleblower-protection_en_20180401_cl

misconduct being forwarded from another entity deeming that
the report has been made to the University. Also, in the case of
the University finds that there is another entity that is in charge
of the investigation besides the University, it notifies said
another entity of the report.
23.4.1.1.6 When a contact point has received a report and the
fact as to whether or not it has officially received the report
cannot be known by the whistleblower, it notifies the
whistleblower that it has officially received the report (excluding
anonymous reports; however, if the whistleblower is identified
before issuance of an investigation report, the whistleblower is
treated as an identified whistleblower; the same applies
hereinafter).
23.4.1.1.7 When a consultation contains such a description
that misconduct is about to occur or a person is asked to commit
misconduct, the contact point notifies the COO, the Dean of
Faculty Affairs or the Provost.
23.4.1.2 When an illegal activity violating the Act on the Protection
of Personal Information Held by Incorporated Administrative
Agencies, Etc. has taken place or is about to take place, a report may
also be submitted in writing to the Okinawa Institute of Science and
Technology Graduate University Project Office, Okinawa
Development and Promotion Bureau of the Cabinet Office.
23.4.2 Procedures for Investigation of Non-compliance with
Legal or Regulatory Provisions
23.4.2.1 Preliminary Investigation
23.4.2.1.1 When the COO finds that a reported case needs a
Preliminary Investigation, he/she may have Compliance Section
to conduct the Preliminary Investigation. When conducting the
Preliminary Investigation, the COO will investigate the
credibility, rationality and the purpose of the report, in addition
to the credibility and rationality of conducting the Substantial
Investigation, etc.
23.4.2.1.2 The COO shall review the details of the report from
the standpoint of credibility, rationality and the purpose of the
report, in addition to the credibility and rationality of conducting
the Substantial Investigation, etc. within 30 days from the
7
ch23_misconduct-and-whistleblower-protection_en_20180401_cl

official receipt of the report, and decide whether or not a
Substantial Investigation is necessary. However, in case there is
a legitimate reason, such as difficulty in administrative
procedures, etc., the said period of 30 days may be extended to
a maximum of 60 days. In this case, the COO shall give a written
notification on the extended duration and the reason thereof.
The COO shall notify the President/CEO and the whistleblower
of the commencement of the Substantial Investigation when the
decision is to conduct a Substantial Investigation, or, when the
decision is not to conduct a Substantial Investigation, notify the
whistleblower thereof with a reason why the Substantial
Investigation will not be conducted.
23.4.2.2 Substantial Investigation
23.4.2.2.1 The President/CEO shall, when the decision to
conduct a Substantial Investigation has been made, promptly
instruct and cause the COO and Compliance Section to conduct
factual investigation. However, the President/CEO may
establish a Compliance Investigatory Committee and have the
Compliance Investigatory Committee to conduct an
investigation, if it deems necessary. The COO chairs the
Compliance Investigatory Committee, and convenes meetings
on a case basis selecting persons whom the COO considers
necessary. The Secretariat of the Compliance Investigatory
Committee is handled by the Compliance Section.
23.4.2.2.2 The Compliance Investigatory Committee will
investigate whether there was alleged non-compliance, who
were involved in the alleged misconduct and how deeply they
were involved. The Committee may request the respondent to
submit relevant documents, make an attestation, respond to
hearing and/or other necessary cooperation.
23.4.2.2.3 The Compliance Investigatory Committee shall,
before making a determination, notify the respondent of the
contents of the investigation to ask for the respondent's
comments. The respondent may submit his/her comments to
the Compliance Investigatory Committee within 30 days from
the date of notification of the contents of investigation under the
preceding paragraph. In this case, when the Compliance
Investigatory Committee has received comments or a response
of “no comments” from the respondent, the Committee may
make a determination even before the expiry of the 30-day
8
ch23_misconduct-and-whistleblower-protection_en_20180401_cl

period.
23.4.2.3 Determination
The Compliance Investigatory Committee shall make a
determination as to whether or not there was non-compliance, based
on the results of the investigation, and notify the President/CEO of
the results of the investigation including said determination. The
President/CEO shall notify the respondent of the results of the
investigation.
23.4.2.4 Appeal
The respondent may appeal to the President/CEO within 14 days
from the date of notification of the results of the investigation. When
an appeal is lodged, the President/CEO may instruct the Compliance
Investigatory Committee to conduct a re-investigation at the
discretion of the President/CEO. In this case, when the respondent's
claims in the appeal and grounds thereof are concerning fairness or
integrity of the Compliance Investigatory Committee such as
composition of the Committee, members of the Compliance
Investigatory Committee may be replaced at the discretion of the
President/CEO. When a re-investigation is instructed, the
Compliance Investigatory Committee shall promptly proceed with
the re-investigation and notify the President/CEO of the results
thereof. The President/CEO shall make a decision on the appeal, and
notify the respondent and the Compliance Investigatory Committee
of the decision. When the President/CEO has decided not to conduct
a re-investigation, he/she will notify the respondent and the
Compliance Investigatory Committee of the decision with a reason
why the re-investigation will not be conducted. The respondent may
not further appeal against said decision on the appeal.
23.4.2.5 Notifying and Reporting
The President/CEO shall notify the whistleblower, the respondent
and the head of the relevant department or office of the results of the
investigation, and also, if any concerned person is to receive an
adverse disposition, submit reports with additional descriptions
including dispositions on the concerned persons, factors facilitated
the misconduct and recurrence prevention measures to the Board of
Governors, Auditors, the Funding Agency, Cabinet Office and the
relevant ministries and agencies, within, unless otherwise specified,
210 days from the official receipt of the report made by the
whistleblower.
23.4.2.6 Public

Announcement

of

The

Results

of

9
ch23_misconduct-and-whistleblower-protection_en_20180401_cl

Investigation
When it was determined that there was non-compliance with legal
or regulatory provisions, the President/CEO shall publicly announce
the results of investigation promptly after the determination, unless
the President/CEO finds it necessary to keep the results undisclosed
because of a justifiable reason. In this case, names of the involved
persons are basically disclosed and other information are also
disclosed unless the President/CEO finds it particularly necessary to
keep it undisclosed. In addition, when information on the subject
case has been divulged outside the University or when the subject
case involves a serious issue having a significant social impact, the
President/CEO may make a public announcement as a mid-term
report even during the investigation is on-going, if it deems
necessary.
23.4.2.7 Measures for Whistleblowers and Respondents
23.4.2.7.1 When a determination that misconduct took place
has been made, the President/CEO will take an appropriate
disciplinary action against a person determined to be involved in
the misconduct in accordance with Chapter 38.
23.4.2.7.2 When a report made by a whistleblower is
determined to be bad faith, the President/CEO will take an
appropriate disciplinary action against the whistleblower in
accordance with Chapter 38.
23.4.3 Procedures for Investigation of Public Research Fund
Misuse
23.4.3.1 Preliminary Investigation
23.4.3.1.1 When the President/CEO finds that a reported case
needs a Preliminary Investigation, he/she may have the Dean of
Faculty Affairs to conduct the Preliminary Investigation. When
the Dean of Faculty Affairs is instructed by the President/CEO
to conduct the Preliminary Investigation, the Dean of Faculty
Affairs will investigate the credibility and so on of the report, and
will submit the results thereof to the President/CEO within 14
days from the date of receipt of the instruction.
23.4.3.1.2 The President/CEO shall review the details of the
report from the standpoint of rationality within 30 days from the
official receipt of the report, decide whether or not a Substantial
10
ch23_misconduct-and-whistleblower-protection_en_20180401_cl

Investigation is necessary, and notify the Board of Governors,
Auditors, the Funding Agency, the Cabinet Office and the
relevant ministries and agencies of the decision when the
decision is to conduct a Substantial Investigation. The
President/CEO shall notify the whistleblower of the
commencement of the Substantial Investigation when the
decision is to conduct a Substantial Investigation, or, when the
decision is not to conduct a Substantial Investigation, notify the
whistleblower thereof with a reason why the Substantial
Investigation will not be conducted.
23.4.3.2 Substantial Investigation
23.4.3.2.1 The President/CEO shall, when the decision is to
conduct a Substantial Investigation, promptly establish and
cause a Public Research Fund Investigatory Committee to
conduct factual investigation. The Dean of Faculty Affairs chairs
the Public Research Fund Investigatory Committee, and
convenes meetings on a case basis selecting persons whom the
Dean of Faculty Affairs considers necessary from the people
listed below. The Secretariat of the Public Research Fund
Investigatory Committee is handled by the Office of the Dean of
Faculty Affairs.
(1) Dean of Faculty Affairs
(2) General Counsel
(3) COO
(4) Vice President, Financial Management
(5) Dean of Research
(7) HR Management Section Leader
(8) Compliance Section Leader
(9) Accounting Section Leader
(10) Grants and Research Collaborations Section Leader
(11) Business Development Section Leader
(12) Other eligible persons whom the chairperson considers
necessary
23.4.3.2.2 The Public Research Fund Investigatory Committee
will investigate whether there was public research fund misuse,
what kind of misuse took place, who were involved in the alleged
misuse and how deeply they were involved, what is an amount
equivalent the misuse, etc. The Public Research Fund
Investigatory Committee shall discuss the policy of the
investigation and what and how to investigate before the
11
ch23_misconduct-and-whistleblower-protection_en_20180401_cl

commencement of the Substantial Investigation. The Public
Research Fund Investigatory Committee may request the
respondent to submit relevant documents, make an attestation,
respond to hearing and/or other necessary cooperation. In
addition, the Public Research Fund Investigatory Committee
may order the respondent not to use the public research funds
subject to the investigation, if it deems necessary.
23.4.3.2.3 The Public Research Fund Investigatory Committee
shall, before making a determination, notify the respondent of
the contents of the investigation to ask for the respondent's
comments. The respondent may submit his/her comments to
the Public Research Fund Investigatory Committee within 30
days from the date of notification of the contents of investigation
under the preceding paragraph. In this case, when the Public
Research Fund Investigatory Committee has received comments
or a response of “no comments” from the respondent, the
Committee may make a determination even before the expiry of
the 30-day period.
23.4.3.3 Determination
The Public Research Fund Investigatory Committee shall make a
determination as to whether there was public research fund misuse,
what kind of misuse took place, who were involved in the alleged
misuse and how deeply they were involved, what is an amount
equivalent the misuse, etc., based on the results of the investigation,
and notify the President/CEO of the results of the investigation
including said determination.
23.4.3.4 Notifying and Reporting
23.4.3.4.1 The President/CEO shall, based on the results
notified under the preceding paragraph, notify the
whistleblower, the respondent and the head of the relevant
department or office of the results of the investigation, and also
submit reports with additional descriptions including
dispositions on the concerned persons, factors facilitated the
misuse, information on mechanisms for managing and
supervising public research funds which are other than those
subject to the investigation and said concerned persons are
involved in and recurrence prevention measures to the Board of
Governors, Auditors, the Funding Agency, the Cabinet Office
and the relevant ministries and agencies, within, unless
otherwise specified, 210 days from the official receipt of the
12
ch23_misconduct-and-whistleblower-protection_en_20180401_cl

report made by the whistleblower. The President/CEO shall
notify the respondent of the results of the investigation.
23.4.3.4.2 The President/CEO shall, even when the
investigation is on-going, when any parts of the facts of the
misuse have been verified, make a determination promptly and
submit reports to the Board of Governors, Auditors, the Funding
Agency, the Cabinet Office and the relevant ministries and
agencies. In addition, when the Funding Agency, the Cabinet
Office or the relevant ministries and agencies requests, even
before the completion of the investigation, a progress report of
the investigation or a mid-term report shall be submitted and it
shall be reported to Auditors. Also, if the Funding Agency, the
Cabinet Office or the relevant ministries and agencies requests,
the President/CEO shall submit materials related to the matter
or permit their inspection and on-site investigation, unless there
are appropriate reasons for not doing so, such as when it is likely
to cause an adverse effect on the investigation or undue violation
of individual rights
23.4.3.5 Appeal
The respondent may appeal to the President/CEO within 14 days
from the date of notification of the results of the investigation. When
an appeal is lodged, the President/CEO may instruct the Public
Research Fund Investigatory Committee to conduct a reinvestigation at the discretion of the President/CEO. In this case,
when the respondent's claims in the appeal are concerning fairness
or integrity of the Public Research Fund Investigatory Committee,
such as composition of the Committee, members of the Public
Research Fund Investigatory Committee may be replaced at the
discretion of the President/CEO. When a re-investigation is
instructed, the Public Research Fund Investigatory Committee shall
promptly proceed with the re-investigation and notify the
President/CEO of the results thereof. The President/CEO shall make
a decision on the appeal and notify the respondent and the Public
Research Fund Investigatory Committee of the decision. When the
President/CEO has decided not to conduct a re-investigation, he/she
will notify the respondent and the Public Research Fund
Investigatory Committee of the decision with a reason why the reinvestigation will not be conducted. The respondent may not further
appeal against said decision on the appeal.

23.4.3.6 Public

Announcement

of

the

Results

of

13
ch23_misconduct-and-whistleblower-protection_en_20180401_cl

Investigation
When it was determined that there was misuse, the President/CEO
shall publicly announce the results of investigation promptly after
the determination, unless the President/CEO finds it necessary to
keep the results undisclosed because of a justifiable reason. In this
case, names of the involved persons are basically disclosed and other
information are also disclosed unless the President/CEO finds it
particularly necessary to keep it undisclosed. In addition, when
information on the subject case has been divulged outside the
University or when the subject case involves a serious issue having a
significant social impact, the President/CEO may make a public
announcement as a mid-term report even during the investigation is
on-going, if it deems necessary.
23.4.3.7 Measures for Whistleblowers and Respondents
23.4.3.7.1 When a determination that misuse took place has
been made, the President/CEO will take an appropriate
disciplinary action against a person determined to be involved in
the misuse in accordance with Chapter 38.
23.4.3.7.2 As a result of the reporting, if the President/CEO is
ordered to refund the public research funds determined to be
misused by the Funding Agency, the Cabinet Office or the
relevant ministries and agencies, the President/CEO may
request the respondent to return the amount. If the misuse is
serious such as misappropriation for a private purpose, legal
measures may be taken, if it is deemed necessary.
23.4.3.7.3 When
no
misuse
was
determined,
the
President/CEO may, based on the results notified under the
preceding paragraph, take measures for preventing possible
disadvantages on the whistleblower and the respondent, if it is
deemed necessary.
23.4.3.7.4 When a report made by a whistleblower is
determined to be bad faith, the President/CEO will take an
appropriate disciplinary action against the whistleblower in
accordance with Chapter 38.
23.4.4 Procedures for Investigation of Specified Research
Misconduct
23.4.4.1 Preliminary Investigation
14
ch23_misconduct-and-whistleblower-protection_en_20180401_cl

A Preliminary Investigation is conducted in order to determine
whether or not an official Substantial Investigation is necessary, in
accordance with the following guidelines:
23.4.4.1.1 The Provost will, with members selected from
following list based on the research field in question, promptly
undertakes a Preliminary Investigation to evaluate the
possibility that the alleged Specified Research Misconduct took
place, credibility of the rationale provided as a scientifically
reasonable ground of reporting, rationality of the contents of the
reporting, whether or not an investigation is warranted and so
on, while providing any and all reasonable and practical means.
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)

Provost
Dean of Faculty Affairs
General Counsel
Dean of Research
Chair of the Faculty Counsel
Chair of the Faculty Assembly
External Experts
Other eligible persons whom the Dean of Faculty Affairs
considers necessary

23.4.4.1.2 When conducting a Preliminary Investigation with
respect to a manuscript which has been withdrawn before
receiving the reporting, the Provost will, in the process of the
Preliminary Investigation, also evaluate as to whether or not the
case should be investigated in a Substantial Investigation as an
issue of Specified Research Misconduct, taking account of such
matters as how and why the manuscript was withdrawn and any
other relevant situations, and make a decision whether to
proceed with a further full-scale investigation.
23.4.4.1.3 The Provost will confirm the source of funding which
funds the research subject to the reporting. Budget Section, and
Grants and Research Collaborations Section will provide a
report on the source of funding to the Provost.
23.4.4.1.4 The Provost will decide whether to conduct a
Substantial Investigation within 30 days after the official receipt
of the reporting and report to the President/CEO.
23.4.4.1.5 When the decision is not to conduct a Substantial
Investigation, the Provost shall notify the whistleblower of the
15
ch23_misconduct-and-whistleblower-protection_en_20180401_cl

decision and the reason why the Substantial Investigation will
not be conducted. In this case, the Provost shall archive
reference materials used in the Preliminary Investigation, and,
upon request by the relevant Funding Agency, the Cabinet Office,
the relevant ministries and agencies or the whistleblower,
disclose these archived references.
23.4.4.1.6 A report of a Preliminary Investigation and relevant
documents will be archived for 7 years at the University.
23.4.4.2 Substantial Investigation
23.4.4.2.1 Notifying and Reporting
i)
A Substantial Investigation is carried out by the Committee
to Promote the Responsible Conduct of Research (hereinafter,
“CPR”). The Provost chairs the CPR, and convenes meetings on
a case bases selecting persons whom the Provost considers
necessary from the people listed below. Internal Faculty
members and external members are selected by the Provost
based on the research field in question. The Secretariat of the
CPR is handled by the Provost Office.
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)

Provost
Dean of Faculty Affairs
General Counsel
Dean of Research
Chair of the Faculty Counsel
Chair of the Faculty Assembly
External Experts (Needs to be over half of the members)
Other eligible persons whom the chairperson considers
necessary

When a decision to carry out a Substantial Investigation has
been made, the President/CEO will notify in writing the
whistleblower and the respondent that the Substantial
Investigation will be carried out and ask them to cooperate with
the investigation. When the respondent belongs to an entity
other than the University, the notice will also be given to said
entity. The chairperson will, when it has established the CPR,
provide the whistleblower and the respondent with a list of
committee members identifying their organizations. In response
thereto the whistleblower and the respondent may file an
opposition within 7 days after he/she received said notification.
In the case where an opposition is filed, the chairperson will
16
ch23_misconduct-and-whistleblower-protection_en_20180401_cl

review the contents of the opposition, and if the chairperson
finds the opposition is reasonable, it will replace the committee
member(s) objected in the opposition and notify the
complainant and the respondent of the replacement. In carrying
out the investigation of the alleged case, a special care shall be
used so that, unless the whistleblower agrees to the contrary, the
whistleblower cannot be identified by the respondent or a person
other than the persons working in the investigation.
ii)
The Provost notifies the Board of Governors, Auditors, the
Funding Agency, the Cabinet Office and the relevant ministries
and agencies that it will carry out a Substantial Investigation.
iii) A Substantial Investigation shall be commenced no later
than 30 days after the decision to conduct the Substantial
Investigation.
23.4.4.2.2 Investigation Method and Delegated Power
i)
The Substantial Investigation will be carried out by
scrutinizing various reference materials such as manuscripts,
experimental or observational notebooks and raw data relating
to the research activities in question, conducting interviews with
relevant personnel, requesting reproduction of the same
experiments. In doing so, the respondent shall be given an
opportunity for explanation.
ii)
For investigating the possibility that the alleged Specified
Research Misconduct took place, when the CPR requests the
respondent to prove reproducibility by conducting the same
experiment or when the respondent voluntarily requests to do
such experiment and the CPR finds it necessary, the
reproduction of the same experiment will be carried out within
the extent that the CPR finds it reasonably necessary taking
account of a necessary period and opportunity (including
equipment, costs, and other relevant matters). In doing so,
guidance and supervision provided by the CPR will be followed.
iii) With respect to the Substantial Investigation, the CPR may
request other entities to conduct a necessary investigation.
iv) With respect to the preceding three paragraphs, the CPR
has the power to require concerned persons to submit reference
materials, appear in hearings and conduct reproduction of the
same experiment, and require the University to pay costs
17
ch23_misconduct-and-whistleblower-protection_en_20180401_cl

reasonably necessary for the procedures. Also, concerned
persons including the whistleblower and the respondent shall
cooperate with the investigation carried out by the CPR based on
said delegated power in good faith.
23.4.4.2.3 Research Activities Subject to Investigation
In addition to the research activities in question, other research
activities which involve the respondent and are relevant to the
investigation may be subject to investigation at the discretion of
the CPR.
23.4.4.2.4Measures for Preserving Evidence
In order to carry out a Substantial Investigation, the CPR will
take measures for preserving reference materials which may be
used as evidence for the research activities in question. In this
case, if the research activities in question took place at a venue
controlled by an entity other than the University, the CPR will
request the entity to take measures for preserving reference
materials which may be used as evidence for the research
activities in question. The respondent's research activities will
not be restricted to the extent that does not negatively affect
these measures.
23.4.4.2.5 Mid-term Investigation Report
If the Funding Agency, the Cabinet Office or the relevant
ministries and agencies which has distributed or took measures
for the budget of the research activities in question requests, the
President/CEO will submit a mid-term investigation report to
the Funding Agency, the Cabinet Office or the relevant ministries
and agencies even before the completion of the investigation,
and it will be reported to Auditors.
23.4.4.2.6 Protection of Research or Technical
Information Subject to Investigation
In carrying out investigation, a special care shall be used so that
research or technical information subject to investigation such
as data and manuscripts before publication will not be disclosed
beyond the extent that is just necessary for carrying out the
investigation. In a case where there are more than one
respondents, if it has been found that they were not collectively
involved in the alleged misconduct, investigation reports may be
prepared individually for these respondents, for the sake of
maintaining confidentiality.
18
ch23_misconduct-and-whistleblower-protection_en_20180401_cl

23.4.4.3 Determination
23.4.4.3.1 Determination
i)
The CPR will complete documentation of the results of the
investigation within 150 days from the commencement of the
Substantial Investigation and make a determination as to
whether or not Specified Research Misconduct took place.
ii)
If it is determined that Specified Research Misconduct
took place, the CPR will further determine the details thereof,
including name of persons involved in the Specified Research
Misconduct, the degree of involvement of each person, and the
roles of authors of the manuscripts relating to the research
activities being determined as Specified Research Misconduct in
said manuscripts or in said research activities.
iii) When it is determined that Specified Research Misconduct
did not take place, if it has been found that the reporting was bad
faith, the CPR will make the determination of bad faith reporting
at the same time. In doing so, the whistleblower shall be given
an opportunity for explanation.
iv) Upon completion of the determinations according to the
preceding three paragraphs, the CPR will immediately report the
determinations to the President/CEO.
23.4.4.3.2 Accountability for Reporting of Specified
Research Misconduct
In the investigation carried out by the CPR, when the respondent
intends to remove the suspicions over the research activities in
question, the respondent shall explain, under his/her own
responsibility, that the research activities have been carried out
in accordance with scientifically appropriate methods and
procedures, and the papers have been written based thereon
using appropriate expressions, presenting scientific evidence
that supports his/her explanation.
23.4.4.3.3 Determination Whether or Not Specified
Research Misconduct Took Place
i)
The CPR takes into account the explanation given by the
respondent under the preceding paragraph and makes
comprehensive evaluation of all evidence obtained by the
investigation including physical or scientific evidence,
testimonies and self-admission of the respondent, to determine
19
ch23_misconduct-and-whistleblower-protection_en_20180401_cl

whether or not Specified Research Misconduct took place.
Credibility of evidence is determined by the evaluation of the
CPR, but, to determine factual basis of the misconduct and
intentionality, it is important to take account of various aspects
such as the organizational mechanisms applied to the research
of the respondent and how the data were checked in the
mechanisms. In addition, determination that Specified Research
Misconduct took place cannot be made if the respondent's selfadmission is the only evidence supporting the determination.
ii)
In the case where evidence supporting the Specified
Research Misconduct is submitted, when a suspicion that the
Specified Research Misconduct took place cannot be reversed by
the respondent's explanation and other evidence, the
determination that Specified Research Misconduct took place
will be made. Also, the same applies to the case where the
respondent is unable to present sufficient evidence that reverses
the suspicion that Specified Research Misconduct took place due
to lack of basic elements which normally exist in research
activities, such as lack of raw data, experimental or observational
notebooks, experimental materials or reagents. However, this
does not apply to the case where it is found that there is a
justifiable reason for that, such as when the respondent had used
a good manager's care and the inability of presenting sufficient
evidence based on the basic elements was due to a cause beyond
control of the respondent (such as loss by disaster). Also, the
same applies to the case where lack of raw data, experimental or
observational notebooks, experimental materials or reagents,
etc. is because of expiry of the reasonable period for storage
specified by OIST Guidelines on Research Data and Laboratory
Notebooks [link: TBP] or the research institution that the
respondent belonged to when he/she was carrying out the
alleged research activities.
iii) Specific standard of proof regarding the preceding two
paragraphs and basic elements which should normally exist in
research activities as mentioned in the preceding paragraph are
determined by the CPR taking account of the characteristics of
the relevant research field.
iv) A report of a Substantial Investigation and relevant
documents will be archived for 7 years at the University.
23.4.4.3.4 Notifying

and

Reporting

of

Results

of

20
ch23_misconduct-and-whistleblower-protection_en_20180401_cl

Investigation
i)
The President/CEO will promptly notify the whistleblower
and the respondent (including those who are other than the
respondent and determined to be involved in the Specified
Research Misconduct; the same applies hereinafter) of the
results of the investigation (including the determination; the
same applies hereinafter). When the respondent belongs to an
entity other than the University, said entity will also be notified
of said results of the investigation.
ii)
In addition to the preceding paragraph, the President/CEO
will report said results of the investigation to the Board of
Governors, Auditors, the Funding Agency, the Cabinet Office
and the relevant ministries and agencies.
iii) When the reporting by the whistleblower was determined
to be bad faith, the President/CEO will also notify the entity that
the complainant belongs to.
23.4.4.3.5 Appeal
i)
The respondent of the reporting being determined as the
Specified Research Misconduct may file an appeal to the within
14 days from the date of notification of the results of the
investigation. However, once an appeal is filed, another appeal
based on the same reason cannot be filed even before the expiry
of said period.
ii)
The whistleblower (including those who have been
determined as making a bad faith reporting in the appeal
proceedings initiated by the respondent; the provision of
“23.4.4.3.3 Determination Whether or Not Specified Research
Misconduct Took Place” above will apply mutatis mutandis to
the determination in this case) whose reporting has been
determined to be bad faith may file an appeal, by applying
mutatis mutandis the preceding paragraph.
iii) Review in the appeal proceedings will be handled by the
CPR. In doing so, if claims of the appeal may require a new
determination based on expert knowledge, the President/CEO
will replace or add committee members or delegate the review to
another body in place of the CPR. However, this does not apply
to the case where the President/CEO finds there is no reasonable
ground for requiring a change of the members of the CPR with
respect to said appeal proceedings.
21
ch23_misconduct-and-whistleblower-protection_en_20180401_cl

iv) With respect to the appeal proceedings initiated by the
respondent in the case being determined that Specified Research
Misconduct took place, the CPR (including those in place of the
CPR according to (iii) above; the same applies hereinafter in
“23.4.4.3.5 Appeal”) will promptly determine whether or not it
will carry out re-investigation of the case, taking account of the
claims and the ground of appeal and other relevant matters. If it
determines that the appeal should be dismissed without the need
of carrying out re-investigation of said case, it will promptly
report the President/CEO thereof, and the President/CEO will
notify the respondent of said determination. In this case, if the
CPR finds that the primary purpose of said appeal is to delay the
conclusion of said case or to postpone the measures to be taken
relating to a possible determination, the President/CEO may
decide not to receive a further appeal. When a determination to
carry out re-investigation has been made regarding the appeal of
(i) above, the CPR will request the respondent to cooperate with
the re-investigation for prompt resolution of the case, such as
submission of reference materials that can be sufficient evidence
to overturn the conclusion of the earlier investigation. If the
respondent is not cooperative, the CPR may decide to terminate
the review without conducting re-investigation. In that case, the
President/CEO will immediately be reported of the decision, and
the President/CEO will notify the respondent of said decision.
v)
When the President/CEO has received an appeal from the
respondent regarding the determination that Specified Research
Misconduct took place, it will notify the whistleblower thereof.
In addition, the President /CEO will report the relevant Funding
Agency, the Cabinet Office, the relevant ministries and agencies
thereof and Auditors. The same applies to the case where it has
decided to dismiss the appeal or to carry out re-investigation.
vi) When the CPR has started re-investigation, it will decide,
within a period of 50 days, whether or not it will overturn the
conclusion of the earlier investigation, and immediately report
the President/CEO of the decision, and then, the President/CEO
will notify the decision to the respondent, the entity that the
respondent belongs to and the whistleblower. In addition, the
President/CEO will report the same to the relevant Funding
Agency, the Cabinet Office, the relevant ministries and agencies
and Auditors.
22
ch23_misconduct-and-whistleblower-protection_en_20180401_cl

vii) Upon receipt of an appeal from the whistleblower of the
reporting being determined to be bad faith as provided in (ii)
above, the President/CEO will notify the entity that the
whistleblower belongs to and the respondent thereof. In
addition, the University will report the same to the relevant
Funding Agency, the Cabinet Office, the relevant ministries and
agencies and Auditors.
viii) With respect to the appeal according to (ii) above, the CPR
will carry out re-investigation within 30 days, and will
immediately report the President/CEO of the results thereof.
The University will notify the results of the review to the
whistleblower, the entity that the whistleblower belongs to and
the respondent. In addition, the University will report the same
to the relevant Funding Agency, the Cabinet Office, the relevant
ministries and agencies and Auditors.
23.4.4.3.6 Public Announcement of The Results of
Investigation
i)
When it has been determined that Specified Research
Misconduct took place, the President/CEO promptly makes
public the results of the investigation including the category of
Specified Research Misconduct, researcher(s), expenses and
subject of research project, and specific description of the
Specified Research Misconduct and other required information.
ii)
When it has been determined that Specified Research
Misconduct did not take place, unless otherwise provided, the
President/CEO will not make public the results of the
investigation. However, it will make public the results of the
investigation if information of the case under investigation has
been divulged outside the University or if an unintentional
mistake was found in a research paper. When it has been
determined that the reporting was bad faith, the results of the
investigation will be made public.
iii) When information of an investigated case has been
divulged and become known to a person other than those in
charge of the case, the President/CEO may officially explain the
investigated case even if the investigation is ongoing, provided
that the whistleblower and the respondent give consent to do so.
However, if the divulgence of information is due to a cause
attributable to the whistleblower or the respondent, consent of
the person is not necessary.
23
ch23_misconduct-and-whistleblower-protection_en_20180401_cl

23.4.4.3.7 Measures
for
Whistleblowers
and
Respondents
i)
When it has been determined that Specified Research
Misconduct took place, the President/CEO will take appropriate
measures in accordance with Chapter 38 “Disciplinary Actions”
[link: 38] for the person determined to be involved in the
Specified Research Misconduct or a person who is not
determined to be involved therein but determined to be
responsible for the contents of a paper relating to the determined
Specified Research Misconduct as its author (hereinafter,
“determined person”) and recommend the determined person to
withdraw the paper or the like being determined to be Specified
Research Misconduct.
ii)
When a reporting has been determined to be bad faith, the
President/CEO will take appropriate measures against the
whistleblower in accordance with the Chapter 38 “Disciple”
[link:38].
iii) No one shall partially or totally prohibit the respondent
from carrying out research activities, nor fire, demote, pay cut
nor give any other disadvantageous treatment on the respondent,
simply based on the fact that the person has been accused in the
reporting without substantial reason.
23.4.4.3.8Refund of Competitive Research Funding
and
Application for Grant and Qualification of
Applicants
i)
Subsequently to the determination of Specified Research
Misconduct, if the Funding Agency requests to refund a part or
all of the granted competitive research funding, the determined
person and the University will respond to the request in good
faith.
ii)
The determined person may be subject to restrictions on
submitting an application for grant of competitive research
funding, and on participating in granted projects. The Grants
and Research Collaborations Section gathers information
relating to said restrictions and appropriately administers the
processing of applications.
23.4.5

How to Submit A Retaliation Complaint to the COO
24
ch23_misconduct-and-whistleblower-protection_en_20180401_cl

23.4.5.1 A Retaliation Complaint shall be submitted to the COO as
promptly as possible after experiencing a suspicious action or
interference or a likelihood of retaliation.
23.4.5.2 Requirements and Criteria for Making Complaint
A Retaliation Complaint under the Whistleblower Protection Policy
shall be submitted in writing, with indications of the date of
complaint and names of relevant persons, and detailed descriptions
of necessary facts and circumstances identifying the activity or the
like that are considered to be retaliation. The complainant shall
provide facts to prove that:
i) The complainant made a report or a protected disclosure with
respect to specific misconduct;
ii) The complainant was under the influence of threatening, coercion
or order not to make a report, or gave up making a report due to
threatening; or
iii) The complainant rejected to obey an Illegal Order.
23.4.5.3 The provisions of the investigation regarding noncompliance [link: 23.4.2] apply mutatis mutandis to the
investigation regarding Retaliation Complaint.
23.5 Forms
23.5.1 Whistleblower Report
23.6 Contacts
23.6.1 Policy Owner
COO
Dean of Faculty Affairs
Provost
23.6.2 Other Contacts
The Office of Dean of Faculty Affairs
The office of the Provost
Compliance Section
Grants and Research Collaborations Section
Business Development Section
Occupational Health and Safety Section

23.7 Definitions
23.7.1

Funding Agency
25
ch23_misconduct-and-whistleblower-protection_en_20180401_cl

It means an agency that distributes grants or provides measures through
competitive research funding or other open-recruitment type research
funding.
23.7.2 Preliminary Investigation
It means an investigation consisting of a preliminary information
gathering and a preliminary fact-finding investigation, based on which a
determination as to whether a report of misconduct or a fact that is
suspected to be misconduct has substance. Based on the results of a
Preliminary Investigation, a decision whether to conduct a Substantial
Investigation is made.
23.7.3 Substantial Investigation
It means an official investigation and evaluation of relevant facts in order
to determine whether or not misconduct took place.
23.7.4 Groundless Report or Complaint
It is a report or complaint made through a major oversight in the fact, with
an intentional falsity, or with a bad faith intention. Individuals who have
made such reports or complaints may be subject to disciplinary actions by
the University and/or legal claims by individuals wrongfully accused of
such conduct.
23.7.5 Illegal Order
Any directive to violate or to assist in violating any applicable Japanese
and local legal or regulatory provisions, or to violate or to assist in
violating University policies, rules and procedures.
23.7.6 Misconduct
It means any activity undertaken by anyone affiliated with OIST Graduate
University (University), including, without limitation, officers, employees,
students, vendors, that violates any applicable Japanese legal or
regulatory provisions, or violates Bylaws, University Rules, Policies, Rules,
and Procedures (PRPs), (collectively, “non-compliance”), and misconduct
in research activities by these people. The scope of non-compliance
includes public research fund misuse.
23.7.6.1 Non-compliance
It means any activity that contradicts with applicable Japanese legal
or regulatory provisions or with Bylaws, University Rules, Rules or
the PRPs.
23.7.6.1.1 Public Research Fund Misuse
26
ch23_misconduct-and-whistleblower-protection_en_20180401_cl

It means any activity that violates the University's internal rules
or Japanese legal or regulatory provisions by submitting falsified
documentation for disbursement claim, such as obtaining
deposit money taking advantage of a relationship with a vendor
and receiving money based on false claims for business trip
expenses, wages and other remuneration, and involves spending
of the University's public research expenses sourced from
operating expense subsidies and competitive research funding
such as grants-in-aid for scientific research and sponsored
research funding.
23.7.6.2 Misconduct in Research Activities
It means, in the conduct of research activities or activities to make
the research results public, any act that distorts the essence or the
spirits of these activities, and impedes normal scientific
communication among the members of the scientific community.
Specifically, acts that fall within the scope of misconduct include
fabrication or falsification of data or results being obtained,
plagiarism and an act that contradicts research ethics, but are not
limited to these. Determination of misconduct will be made on a case
basis and depend on the specific details of the case.
23.7.6.2.1 Specified Research Misconduct
It means fabrication, falsification and plagiarism relating to data,
findings of study and the like which are present in research
results published in a paper submitted to academic journals,
which are caused by a willful act or gross negligence of due care
that shall have been exercised by an ordinary researcher.
(i) Fabrication: It means making up data, research results,
etc.
(ii) Falsification: It means manipulating research materials,
equipment or processes, or changing data or results being
obtained from research activities such that the research is not
accurately represented.
(iii) Plagiarism: It is the appropriation of another
researcher's ideas, analysis processes, data, results, manuscripts
or words without obtaining consent from the researcher or
giving appropriate credit.
In addition, misconduct in research activities are not limited to
those fall under the Specified Research Misconduct.
23.7.7 Use of Official Authority or Official influence
It means to give an order, proposal, treatment or approval to give benefits
27
ch23_misconduct-and-whistleblower-protection_en_20180401_cl

or make a promise to give benefits, exercise retaliation or make a threat to
retaliate, take personnel measures (including, but not limited to,
appointment, promotion, relocation, selection, performance appraisal,
suspension and other disciplinary actions) or an order, proposal,
treatment or approval to have others to do any of these.
23.7.8 Protected Disclosure
Any good faith communication that discloses or demonstrates an
intention to disclose an alleged misconduct.
23.7.9 Retaliation Complaint
It means a complaint made by an employee or a third party claiming that
a retaliation against a Protected Disclosure or the rejection to an Illegal
Order has been made, or a complaint made by an employee or a third party
claiming that an interference was made in the course of making a
Protected Disclosure, which is submitted in writing along with a statement
that the contents of the complaint are true or a statement that the
complainant believes that the contents of the complaint are true.

28
ch23_misconduct-and-whistleblower-protection_en_20180401_cl

OIST Graduate University
Policies, Rules and Procedures
Authority: Approved by the President

Chapter 24. Childcare Services
24.1 Policy
The OIST Graduate University (hereinafter “the University”) recognizes the
critical needs of the university staff, students, and visitors with children for
international and high-quality pre-school and after-school/holiday education
services. To meet such needs is one of the basic functions which the University
must fulfill to attract and retain the best talent, enhance the wellbeing of the
University community and thereby achieve the missions of the University.
The University provides the pre-school and after-school/holiday programs
designed to meet such needs as much as possible by establishing and
operating the OIST Child Development Center (CDC). The services are
provided at dedicated, safe facilities on campus. While the CDC is established
as a part of the University, it has a semi-autonomous decision-making body,
the CDC Governing Board, with representation from the relevant
administrative divisions of the University, the CDC management and the OIST
Child Care Association [link: ]. Please refer to the Bylaws (terms of reference)
of the Governing Board [link: ] for its responsibilities and membership. The
CDC Governing Board reports to the University President who reports to the
Board of Governors of the OIST School.
The services must be offered based on fair and transparent rules set forth by
the Governing Board. The University’s equal opportunity and diversity policy
[link:1.3] must be applied in developing and implementing such rules.
24.3 Rules
24.3.1 Governing Rules
24.3.1.1 In addition to what is provided for in this chapter,
operational matters of the CDC are governed by the Bylaws of the
Governing Board [link: ] and other detailed stipulations developed
and maintained by the Governing Board. For the matters not
provided for by such rules, the general university policies and rules
apply.
24.3.1.2 Establishment and amendment of the Bylaws do not
become effective until a final approval has been made by the
President.

1
Ch24_Childcare-Services _20150401_en_cl

24.3.1.3 The President may request the CDC Governing Board to
make amendments of its Bylaws, when the President finds it
necessary.
24.3.2 Budget and Accounting
24.3.2.1 The Governing Board must request annual budget for
operation of the CDC and its revision to the President every fiscal
year in accordance with the general budget request procedures.
[link: 27.5] When making a budget request, a proposal of fee
structure and estimated annual revenue must also be submitted to
the President for its approval.
24.3.2.2 Funds to be allocated to CDC might consist of several
different source of funding including the Subsidy for Operations.
The Governing Board is responsible for confirming the constraints
of use of each source of funding and reflecting it to the business
plan and implementation.
24.3.2.3 As a budgetary unit[link: 27.3.2], the Governing Board is
responsible for management and implementation of the allocated
budget for the CDC.
24.3.2.4 Budget and accounting of the operational expenses of the
CDC must be dealt with separately from other operational expenses
of the University except for the expenses for which such separation
is not practical (i.e. routine facility maintenance, utility and security
expenses etc.).
24.3.3 User Eligibility
24.3.3.1 Staff and students. Any University employees, including
temporary staff dispatched from an agency under an hourly-fee
contract (excluding contractor or vendor employees), and students
are eligible to enroll their children in the CDC. Priority may be
given to specific groups based on the policy and rules adopted by
the Governing Board.
24.3.3.2 Visitors. Visiting faculty, lecturers, students, participants
in events held on campus and other kinds of guests also have access
to the CDC programs for their children. Priority may be given to
the University staff and students or specific visitor categories based
on the policy and rules adopted by the Governing Board.

2
Ch24_Childcare-Services _20150401_en_cl

24.3.3.3 Others. In addition to those specified in preceding
paragraphs, staff of contractors (vivarium, cleaning, café, etc.),
volunteers, and others working on campus may be given access to
the CDC programs if the Governing Board considers it necessary.
24.4 Responsibilities
24.4.1 President
The President of the University is responsible for ensuring the provision
of high-quality and international pre-school and after-school/ holiday
programs by securing and allocating appropriate financial and other
resources for the CDC. The President must receive and forward
periodical reports from the Governing Board on CDC operation to the
Board of Governors of the OIST School Corporation.
The President approves annual business and budget plans of the CDC.
24.4.2 Governing Board of the CDC
The Governing Board of the CDC is responsible for overall management
of the CDC operations, including the following matters:
- Maintain, and suggest amendments to the President as necessary,
these Bylaws.
- Ensure that the operation of the CDC meets all national and local
compliance and safety standards.
- Select the Director of the CDC to be appointed by the President.
- Make annual business plan and budget request, including fee
structure and revenue estimation and its revision, to the President.
- Submit annual business and budget plans of the CDC to the
President and monitor the implementation of the plans.
- Submit annual reports, due at the end of April, to the Board of
Governors of the OIST School Corporation through the President.
See the Bylaws of the Governing Board [link] and “CDC Pre-school
Handbook” [link: ] for details.
24.4.3 Users of the CDC
Users of the CDC are responsible for supporting the CDC operations by
sending their feedback to the Governing Board through their OIST Child
Care Association representatives and by participating in CDC events.
CDC users must bear the cost of services based on the fee structure
maintained by the Governing Board and approved by the President. In
situations of financial hardship, the Governing Board may elect to
partially or fully waive the fees.
24.5 Procedures
3
Ch24_Childcare-Services _20150401_en_cl

24.5.1 Pre-School Program
- Submit Application Form and Health Screening Form to the CDC
- See “CDC Pre-School Handbook”[Link: ] for detail rules,
procedures, educational program and fee structure
24.5.2 After-School/Holiday Program
- Contact the CDC office for application
24.6 Forms
24.6.1 Application Form for Pre-school Program [link: ]
24.6.2 Health Screening Form for Pre-school Program [link: ]
24.7 Contacts
24.7.1 Policy Owner:
The President
24.7.2 Other Contacts:
The Governing Board of the OIST CDC and the OIST Graduate
University CDC

4
Ch24_Childcare-Services _20150401_en_cl

OIST Graduate University
Policies, Rules & Procedures
Authority: Approved by the President

Chapter 25. Housing
25.1

Policy

25.1.1
The University undertakes to provide housing on campus for
approximately half of its academic population. The objective is to provide
housing for all incoming students during their first year at the University,
and for most incoming researchers and faculty, to ease their transition to
life in Okinawa and at the University. The expectation is that some faculty
and researchers will choose instead to live off campus. After the first year,
students can choose to remain on campus or move off campus. When no
appropriate on campus housing is available for an employee, and if the
CEO/President identifies the employee as one who should reside
adjacently to the campus to accomplish her/his duty, the University may
rent off campus housing for the employee, which is designated in advance
by the University. This policy enables the University to provide sufficient
housing and related facilities for incoming members of the academic
population, while still providing business opportunities for Okinawa
developers, landlords and real estate companies to benefit from the
presence of the University and its researchers in Okinawa.
25.1.2
Campus housing is made up of a mix of apartments and houses
intended to cater to a range of academic residents, from single students
sharing an apartment, to researchers and faculty members who have
partners and children living with them.
25.1.3
Housing and related welfare facilities are designed to make life
comfortable for residents from a wide range of nationalities, backgrounds
and age-groups. The buildings are designed to suit the climate and
environment of the campus, within the limits of the budget available for
their development.
25.1.4
All academic members of the OIST population are eligible to apply
for residence in on-campus housing. Executives [link: 30.2.2.1.1] are also
1
ch25_Faculty-Staff-and-Student-Housing_20150601_ja_cl

eligible to live on campus, but administrative staff are offered on-campus
housing only by exception.
25.1.5
Housing is provided on a subsidized basis. In principle, residents
are responsible for 20% of the rent amount of their housing, with the
balance provided by OIST, subject to established limits.
25.1.6
Residents are responsible for all utility costs incurred in their
apartments or houses.
25.2

General considerations

25.2.1
The housing at OIST has been developed under a Public Private
Partnership with Okinawa Scientists Village Co., Ltd (the Developer).
Under the terms of the Project Contract between OIST and the Developer,
the housing has been designed and constructed by the Developer to a
specification agreed between the two parties. Upon completion of the
buildings, ownership has been transferred to OIST, and OIST has entered
into a Master Lease with the Developer to operate and maintain the
housing on behalf of the university for a period of 30 years. In principle,
the Developer’s sole source of income is the rental fees derived from the
use of the housing by members of the university. To ensure the commercial
viability of the project for the Developer, OIST has given an undertaking to
maintain an agreed level of occupancy in the housing.
25.2.2
Notwithstanding the above (25.2.1), certain costs for long-term
renovation of the housing are to be borne by OIST, in accordance with
provisions set out in the Project Contract between OIST and the Developer.
25.2.3
In principle, housing is provided on an unfurnished basis.
However, OIST has furnished a number of apartments and houses for use
by incoming students, researchers and faculty without their own furniture.
A separate monthly charge is made by the university to residents in
furnished housing to recover the replacement cost of the items installed.
25.2.4
A limited number of furnished houses and apartments are held by
the university for short-term use by visiting faculty and researchers.
Eligibility and conditions are set out in 21.3.1.2. [link: 21.5.4].
25.2.5

Off-campus housing may be rented by the university for Officers
2
ch25_Faculty-Staff-and-Student-Housing_20150601_ja_cl

and employees. Eligibility and conditions are set out in Off-campus Rental
Housing Regulations [link: *******].
25.3

Rules

25.3.1

People who may be residents

25.3.1.1 The people who may be residents of campus housing are as
follows.
1. Senior level executives of the University [link: 30.2.2.1.1]
2. Faculty, researchers and students of the University
3. Apart from the people above, people whose residence the President
has authorized
25.3.1.2 Provision of housing for Full-time Officers(the CEO/President,
Vice-CEO and Full-time Auditor) is as follows.
1. The university rents the President's House to the CEO/President.
2. The university rents On-Campus housing to the Vice-CEO and
Full-time Auditor.
3. The university may rent Off-Campus housing for Vice-CEO and
Full-time Auditor under special circumstances approved by the
CEO/President.
25.3.2

Co-residents

25.3.2.1 The scope of people who are allowed to live with residents of
campus housing is limited to the family / partner of a person
stipulated in 25.3.1 or a person stipulated in 25.3.1 (as a room share
mate).
25.3.2.2 OIST may recognize co-residence in campus housing by people
other than those stipulated in 25.3.2.1 with the approval of the Vice
President, Buildings and Facility Management in cases of special
circumstances.
25.3.3
Use based on sub-lease
The following people can use campus housing (excluding Seaside Faculty
Housing) on a sub-lease basis where OIST is the sub-lessor.
1. Faculty of OIST
2. Students of OIST
3
ch25_Faculty-Staff-and-Student-Housing_20150601_ja_cl

3. Apart from those above, people the President has authorized
25.3.4
Selection and authorization of residents
The Vice President, Buildings and Facility Management authorizes residency
and people who apply first are given priority in selection for residency, although
exceptions may apply.
25.3.5
Cancellation of authorization of residency
If people whose residency has been authorized do not take up residence by the
predetermined date without legitimate reason, or if it becomes clear that there
are false statements in the documents submitted at the time of application, OIST
will cancel their authorization of residency.
25.3.6
Conclusion of a lease contract and contract period
Excluding cases of use of Seaside Faculty Housing, residents must conclude a
lease agreement with the Developer (with OIST in cases based on sub-lease) by
the date they take up residency. Please check here [link: ] for a standard lease
agreement.
The lease agreement period is one year and this period shall be renewed
automatically in the absence of notice.
25.3.7
Payment of rent, etc.
Excluding cases of use of campus housing based on a sub-lease with OIST and
cases of use of Seaside Faculty Housing, residents must pay rent, etc., from the
predetermined date of entry to residence until the date they leave by the method
stipulated in the lease agreement [link: 25.6.3]. Please refer to 34.3.5.2 Housing
allowance [link: 34.3.5.2] with regard to the amounts of housing allowance
provided by OIST to residents.
In cases of use of campus housing based on a sub-lease with OIST, OIST will
collect as a usage charge. (The calculation method conforms to the provisions of
35.3.3.3.2 Off-Campus Rental housing [link: 35.3.3.3.2].)
The amounts of usage charges in cases of use of Seaside Faculty Housing are
stipulated in 35.3.3.3 Usage charges [link: 35.3.3.3].
Rent, etc., in cases where students reside in campus housing is stipulated in
5.4.4 Student accommodation [link: 5.4.4] or 5.5.2.1.1.3. (Irregular student)
Accommodation [link: 5.5.2.1.1.3].
25.3.8
Furniture usage charges
People residing in furnished rooms must conclude a furniture agreement with
OIST and pay furniture usage charges by the method [link:] stipulated in [link:
4
ch25_Faculty-Staff-and-Student-Housing_20150601_ja_cl

25.6.4]. Please check here [link:25.6.4] for a standard furniture agreement.
25.3.9
Cost burden
Residents must bear the cost of electricity, gas and water, etc., that they use.
25.3.10

Residents’ management obligations

25.3.10.1 Residents must use campus housing with a good manner.
25.3.10.2 Residents must not lease out or make available for a use other
than as a residence all or part of their campus housing to a third party,
and must not modify, remodel or carry out any other construction
work on said campus housing.
25.3.10.3 If a resident damages or defaces campus housing deliberately or
due to gross negligence, he or she must return the campus housing to
its original state or compensate for the cost of doing the same.
25.3.11

Leaving

25.3.11.1 Residents must leave campus housing when they fall under any of
the following categories.
25.3.11.1.1
When their period of residence expires
25.3.11.1.2
When they have resigned
25.3.11.1.3
When it is necessary due to reason of OIST’s work
25.3.11.1.4
When OIST has instructed a resident to leave because
the resident has violated the provisions of this chapter or the
reason for their residence has ceased to exist
25.3.11.2 Residents must not invoice OIST for eviction fees, etc., as a
condition for vacating campus housing.
25.3.12
Residential guide
Residents of campus housing (excluding Seaside Faculty Housing) must read
and understand the residential guide provided by the Developer [link:].
25.4

Responsibilities

25.4.1
Vice President, Buildings and Facilities Management
The Vice President, Buildings and Facilities Management have general charge of
5
ch25_Faculty-Staff-and-Student-Housing_20150601_ja_cl

the maintenance, operation and management of campus housing.
25.4.2
Facility Management Section
Facility Management Section is in charge of the maintenance, operation and
management of campus housing under the instructions of the Vice President,
Buildings and Facilities Management. This section is also the contact point for
OIST with the Developer.
25.4.3
Residents
Residents must execute faithfully the duties stipulated in this chapter, the lease
agreement [link: 25.6.3] and the furniture agreement [link: 25.6.5] (if using
furniture).
25.4.4
The Developer (Okinawa Scientists Village, Co., Ltd.)
The Developer is entrusted with work related to the maintenance, operation and
management of campus housing based on the business contract concluded with
OIST.
25.5

Procedures

25.5.1
Residency applications
People who wish to reside in campus housing must submit the prescribed
application form of campus housing[link:25.6.1] to Facility Management
Section.
25.5.2
Leaving notices
Residents must submit the prescribed request form of leaving and pay
agreement [link:25.6.2] to Facility Management Section at least one month in
advance if they intend to leave campus housing for their own reasons.
25.5.3
Advance notice of an order to leave
If OIST requires a resident to leave campus housing based on 25.3.11.1.3, it must
notify the resident at least six months in advance.
25.6

Forms

25.6.1
Application Form of Campus Housing
Please inquire with Facility Management Section with regard to Application
form of campus housing [link:].
6
ch25_Faculty-Staff-and-Student-Housing_20150601_ja_cl

25.6.2
Request Form of Leaving and Pay Agreement
Please inquire with Facility Management Section with regard to request form of
leaving and pay agreement [link:].
25.6.3
Lease agreement
Please check here [link:] for a standard campus housing lease agreement.
25.6.4
Furniture agreement
Please check here [link:] for a standard furniture agreement.
25.7

Contacts

25.7.1
Policy Owner
Vice President, Buildings and Facilities Management
25.7.2
Other contacts:
Facility Management Section
25.8

Definitions

25.8.1
Campus housing
The campus housing provided at OIST is as follows.
 Village Center
 West Court
 East Court
 South Hill
 Hillside Faculty House
 Seaside Faculty House
 President’s House
25.9

Appendices


Campus Housing Information (room types / sizes, rents, etc.) [link:]

7
ch25_Faculty-Staff-and-Student-Housing_20150601_ja_cl

OIST Graduate University
Policies, Rules & Procedures
Authority:
 Approved by the President
 Okinawa Institute of Science and Technology School Corporation Act

Chapter 26. Finance and Accounting
26.1 Policy
The Okinawa Institute of Science and Technology School Corporation (the “Corporation”) relies
upon the provisions of the Okinawa Institute of Science and Technology School Corporation Act
in combination with policies, rules and procedures set out in this Chapter, in managing the
financial affairs and accounting of the Corporation. This Chapter sets forth the financial and
accounting standards, practice, and rules of the Corporation used to monitor its financial
conditions and administrative performance and to assure the smooth operation of activities of the
Corporation in support of the education and research missions of the OIST Graduate University
(the University).
26.1.1 Accountability & Transparency.
The Corporation may prepare financial statements based on the internationally recognized
accounting standard in addition to the ones based on the OIST School Corporation
accounting standards stipulated by the Japanese government in order to gain its
accountability and transparency to the international donors or provider of funds.
26.1.2 Applicable Standards.
The financial statements are prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards
relevant to OIST School Corporation.

26.2 General Considerations
26.2.1 Fiscal Year
The fiscal year of the Corporation shall commence annually on April 1 and end on March
31 of the following year.
26.2.2 Chief Administrator in Charge of Accounting
The CEO/President shall be responsible for financial affairs and accounting of the
Corporation. The CEO/President may have the Chief Operating Officer (hereinafter
referred to as “COO”) conduct the duties in part.
26.2.2.1 The Vice President for Financial Management shall have jurisdiction over
the financial and accounting affairs of the Corporation under the supervision of the
CEO/President and the COO.
1
ch26_finance-and-accounting_en_20180401_cl

26.2.3 Titles of Accounts
The accounting of the Corporation shall be handled in accordance with the titles of
accounts[link: http://iwww.oist.jp/document/prp-aux/26.2.3_ titlesofaccounts_en.pdf] as
separately stipulated.
26.2.4 Accounting Books and Vouchers
The Corporation shall, through accounting books and vouchers, record and maintain
accurate records of all required matters in an orderly fashion.
26.2.4.1 The formats, types, forms and retention periods of accounting books and
vouchers shall be as separately stipulated. (Refer 26.2.5 Books & Ledgers [link: ],
26.2.6 Vouchers [link: ]、26.3.9 Storage of Documents [link: ])
26.2.4.2 Accounting books and vouchers may be recorded and stored in any
electronic media.
26.2.5 Books & Ledgers
The accounting books stated in 26.2.4.1[link: 26.2.4] are as follows:
(1) General Ledger
(2) Table of Budget Execution Status
(3) Subsidiary Book
A. Cashbook
B. Fixed Asset Ledger
C. Petty Cashbook
26.2.6 Vouchers
The vouchers stated in 26.2.4.1[link: 26.2.4] are as follows:
(1) Transfer vouchers
(2) Receiving vouchers
(3) Disbursement vouchers
(4) Revenue vouchers
(5) Expense vouchers
26.2.7 Preparation of Vouchers
To prepare the vouchers, date of preparation, account title, business partner, sum, details
of transaction, and other necessary items of information shall be specified based on the
related straight documents with the evidential documents concerning the transaction
attached.
26.2.7.1 Contractual documents, invoices, billing statements, and other similar
documents shall constitute the evidential documents stated in the above section.
2
ch26_finance-and-accounting_en_20180401_cl

26.3 Rules
26.3.1 Accounting Procedures and Handling of Money
For purposes of this Chapter, “money” and “securities” shall be defined as follows:
“Money” shall mean any cash (including checks, postal money orders, transfer
slips and payment notes) and deposits (including postal deposits and money in
trust).
“Securities” shall mean any national and local government bonds, governmentguaranteed bonds (which refer to bonds refund/payment of principal/interest of
which is guaranteed by the government) and other securities designated by the
Prime Minister.
26.3.1.1 Accounting Supervisor
Authority and Responsibilities:
The Accounting Supervisor who shall be responsible for overall accounting shall,
accurately and promptly, execute accounting transactions including the execution
of budget and is responsible for receiving and paying.
The Vice President for Financial Management shall serve as the Accounting
Supervisor of the Corporation.
26.3.1.1.1 The Accounting Supervisor may cause any other staff(s) to
handle any part of his or her business.
26.3.1.1.2 In the event that the Accounting Supervisor is unable to act, a
person designated by the COO shall act on his behalf.
“Unable to act” shall be those cases falling under the category of
the following.
(1) In case of a vacancy for Accounting Supervisor
(2) When the Accounting Supervisor cannot engage in duties for a
long period due to days off, holidays, vacation, illness, etc.
(3) During long-term travel on business
26.3.1.2 Receiving and Paying and Supervisor for receiving, paying and custody
of money
Receiving, paying and custody of money shall be performed by the Supervisor for
receiving, paying and custody of money who is under direct control of the
Accounting Supervisor.

3
ch26_finance-and-accounting_en_20180401_cl

26.3.1.2.1 The manager in charge of receiving, paying and custody of
money in the Accounting Section shall serve as the Supervisor for
receiving, paying and custody of money of the Corporation.
26.3.1.2.2 The Supervisor for receiving, paying and custody of money shall
not receive or pay any money or security that is not relevant to the business
of the Corporation.
26.3.1.2.3 The Supervisor for receiving, paying and custody of money shall
be authorized to designate a Cashier from among the personnel in the
section and mandate the personnel to engage in accounting and disbursing
duties.
26.3.1.3 Transactions with Financial Institutions
The Accounting Supervisor shall be in charge of the procedures for opening or
closing an account in banking institutions.
26.3.1.3.1 Bank accounts shall in principle be opened in the name of the
CEO/President.
26.3.1.3.2 The Supervisor for receiving, paying and custody of money shall
keep the banking seals and be in charge of sealing.
26.3.1.4 Custody of Cash
The Supervisor for receiving, paying and custody of money shall deposit all cash
excluding the minimum petty cash with financial institutions, etc.
26.3.1.4.1 Securities shall be, in principle, deposited for safekeeping.
26.3.1.4.2 The Supervisor for receiving, paying and custody of money shall
manage cash and bank passbooks, making assurance doubly sure of
keeping them in the safest place.
26.3.1.4.3, the cashbooks stipulated in 26.2.5[link: 26.2.5] must be updated
and maintained, writing up the book for each receipt or payment.
26.3.1.4.4 Securities shall be managed for safekeeping in like manner as
stated in 26.3.1.4 when they are held on hand notwithstanding the
provisions of 26.3.1.4.1.
26.3.1.4.5 Postage stamps, cash vouchers, and certificate stamps authorized
by the Corporation shall be kept in trust pursuant to cash.
4
ch26_finance-and-accounting_en_20180401_cl

26.3.1.4.6 In terms of 26.3.1.4.5, the receipt-payment books must be
updated, writing up the book for each receipt or payment.
26.3.1.5 Petty Cash
The Accounting Supervisor shall be authorized to keep petty cash for small and
urgent payments.
26.3.1.5.1The management stated in 26.3.1.5 shall be prescribed by from
26.3.1.6 to 26.3.12.
26.3.1.5.2 In terms of 26.3.1.5.1, the petty cashbooks stipulated in 26.2.5
shall be updated and recorded in the ledger for each receipt or payment.
26.3.1.6 Petty Cash Supervisor and Petty Cash Clerk
The receipt and payment of petty cash shall be conducted by the Clerk for Receipt
and Payment of Petty Cash (hereafter, “Petty Cash Clerk”) under the supervision
of the Supervisor for receiving, paying and custody of money .
26.3.1.7 Establishment of Petty Cash
When the Accounting Supervisor determines that the establishment of petty cash
is necessary, the Accounting Supervisor must report to the COO for approval,
specifying the petty cash limit and the required management items.
26.3.1.7.1 When the COO approves the establishment of petty cash under
the provisions of 26.3.1.7, the Petty Cash Clerk must submit a petty cash
invoice to the Supervisor for receiving, paying and custody of money.
26.3.1.7.2 Petty cash shall not exceed 200,000 yen.
26.3.1.8 Receipt, Payment and Custody of Petty Cash
The Petty Cash Clerk must not mix Petty Cash with personal funds, and must
strictly conduct the receipt, payment and custody of petty cash.
26.3.1.8.1 The Petty Cash Clerk must record all receipts and payments in
the petty cash ledger, and check actual cash on hand against the ledger
balance monthly.
26.3.1.9 Petty Cash Payments
Petty cash payments shall be limited to urgent cases and situations where payment
in cash is necessary, and shall not exceed truly necessary amount for the business
purposes.

5
ch26_finance-and-accounting_en_20180401_cl

26.3.1.9.1Petty cash payments shall be made in exchange for receipts from
the parties receiving payments.
26.3.1.9.2 Before making payments, the Petty Cash Clerk must confirm
that these are for expenses that should be borne by the Corporation by
having the parties receiving payments display the items being sold or
otherwise show the reasons for payment.
26.3.1.9.3 Petty cash payments shall not be issued for repayments in cases
when specified procedures are required.
26.3.1.10 Petty Cash Receipts and Payments Reports, and Requests for Funds
The Petty Cash Clerk must prepare a Petty Cash Receipts and Payments Report at
the end of each month attaching receipts or other documents as evidence of the
payments specified in 26.3.1.9, and have said report approved by the Supervisor
for receiving, paying and custody of money.
26.3.1.10.1 After approving a Petty Cash Receipts and Payments Report
specified in 26.3.1.10, the Supervisor for receiving, paying and custody of
money must present the report and a copy of the Petty Cash Ledger to the
Accounting Supervisor, together with a request for funds for the
subsequent month.
26.3.1.11 Termination of Petty Cash
When the Accounting Supervisor determines that the maintenance of petty cash is
no longer necessary, the Accounting Supervisor must report this determination
promptly to the COO for approval.
26.3.1.11.1 If the COO approves discontinuance of Petty Cash, the
Accounting Supervisor must require the Supervisor for receiving, paying
and custody of money to carry out termination procedures.
26.3.1.11.2 The Accounting Supervisor must report to the COO when the
termination of Petty Cash is accomplished.
26.3.1.12 Supervision and Inspection of Petty Cash
The Supervisor for receiving, paying and custody of money must carry out the
required supervision and inspection work to secure appropriate accounting of petty
cash.
26.3.1.13 Procedures for Receiving and Paying Money

6
ch26_finance-and-accounting_en_20180401_cl

The Supervisor for receiving, paying and custody of money shall receive or pay
money in accordance with a voucher created based on necessary evidential
documents.
26.3.1.14 Occurrence of Receivables
In any event that creates receivable claims occurs, the Accounting Supervisor shall
confirm the occurrence of receivables and request the obligor to perform the
obligation.
26.3.1.15 Notice of Receivables
Accrual of receivables contributing to revenue known to personnel other than the
Accounting Supervisor must be reported in writing to the Accounting Supervisor
accordingly.
26.3.1.16 Call for Performance of Obligation
The Accounting Supervisor must issue the billing statements for collection of
payments as in the appendix[link: http://iwww.oist.jp/document/prpaux/26.3.1.16_bill.doc]. However, this rule shall not be applicable to cases stated
in the following:
(1) When sending by postal service or passing in person the transfer request
in advance (for expenses such as dissertation course fee and tuition for
classes)
(2) When payment is made in cash
(3) When the Accounting Supervisor specifically recognizes the omission
as necessary
26.3.1.17 Receipt of Payment
The payment must be in principle transferred to the relevant bank for the
Supervisor for receiving, paying and custody of money to receive it. However,
payment can be made otherwise including cash payments if authorized by the
Accounting Supervisor as a job-related necessity.
26.3.1.17.1 The Supervisor for receiving, paying and custody of money
must deposit the cash received in the relevant bank under the proviso as
stated in the preceding section swiftly unless specifically authorized by the
Accounting Supervisor.
26.3.1.18 Collection Notice
The Accounting Supervisor shall send a collection notice to an obligor of any
overdue payment immediately after such payment becomes due and payable and
ensure the receipt of any payment.
26.3.1.19 Debt Forgiveness
7
ch26_finance-and-accounting_en_20180401_cl

The Accounting Supervisor shall obtain the approval of the COO for any
forgiveness or change of effect of any receivables in whole or in part, other than
important assets.
26.3.1.20 Issuance of Receipts
The Supervisor for receiving, paying and custody of money shall issue a receipt in
a
separately
prescribed
form[link:
http://iwww.oist.jp/document/prpaux/26.3.1.20_ Receipt.doc] for any money received.
26.3.1.20.1 If any money is received through a direct deposit to a financial
institution, etc., the issuance of a receipt prescribed in 26.3.1.20 may be
omitted.
26.3.1.20.2 The issuance and management of receipts shall be strictly made.
26.3.1.20.3 Receipts shall be stamped with both stamps of the Supervisor
for receiving, paying and custody of money and the Cashier.
26.3.1.20.4 For re-issuance, the payment receipt must be confirmed by
accounting slip marked with “REISSUE”, the copy of which to be filed
together with the copy of the confirmation slip that verifies the receipt.
26.3.1.21 Receipt Management
The Supervisor for receiving, paying and custody of money shall be in charge of
managing receipts.
26.3.1.21.1 The Supervisor for receiving, paying and custody of money
must manage receipts by sequence number in the receipt-payment books.
26.3.1.22 Determination of Payment
The Accounting Supervisor shall be aware of all obligations through the inspection,
etc., and order the Supervisor for receiving, paying and custody of money to make
a payment in accordance with the relevant payment terms.
26.3.1.23 Method of Payment
The Supervisor for receiving, paying and custody of money shall make a payment,
in principle, by a direct deposit to a financial institution, etc. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, a payment may be made by handing out cash if necessary, including in
the case of payment to a staff and a petty cash payment.
26.3.1.23.1 The Supervisor for receiving, paying and custody of money
shall collect a receipt for any payment. If the payment is made by a direct
deposit, the bank deposit slip may suffice in lieu of a receipt.
8
ch26_finance-and-accounting_en_20180401_cl

26.3.1.24 Date of Payment
Payment shall be in principle made monthly with the closing date at the end of the
month and settlement at the end of the subsequent month unless otherwise
specified. However, the following shall be paid on the set date:
(1) Payroll
(2) Travel expenses, honoraria and rewards
(3) Utilities with due date, foreign remittance, etc.
(4) Travel expenses and honoraria for foreign lecturers and
speechmakers
26.3.1.24.1 The payment shall be made on the previous business day if the
date of payment stated in the preceding section does not fall on a business
day of the relevant banking institution.
26.3.1.25 Receipt Collection Duty of Proxy Receiver
The personnel receiving the payment on behalf of the creditor must obtain receipt
from the creditor, which must be submitted to the Accounting Supervisor.
26.3.1.26 Money in Custody, etc.
The Accounting Supervisor shall process any money received or paid by the
Supervisor for receiving, paying and custody of money that shall not fall under any
income or expenditure of the Corporation as money in custody or payment in place
of others. In principle, no money in custody shall bear any interest.
26.3.1.27 Advance Payment
An advance payment may be made only in the case separately stipulated by VPF,,
if necessary due to the nature of the payment or for business purposes[Link:
Guidelines for Advance Payment and Payment on behalf of Corporation].

26.3.1.28 Payment by Rough Estimate
A payment by rough estimate may be made only in the case separately stipulated,
if necessary due to the nature of the payment or for business purposes. The
expenses for which payment can be made by estimate are as follows:
(1) Expenses for oversea travel
(2)Expenses specifically authorized as necessary by the Accounting
Supervisor
The expenses paid by estimate must be promptly settled.
26.3.1.29 Payment on behalf of Corporation
9
ch26_finance-and-accounting_en_20180401_cl

Any staff of the Corporation may make payment on behalf of the Corporation only
in the case separately stipulated by VPF, if necessary for business purposes [Link:
Guidelines for Advance Payment and Payment on behalf of Corporation].
The advance payment must be promptly settled.
Exchange rate for settlement applies to our internal exchange rate of preceding
month[Link:].
26.3.1.30 Immediate payment
Immediate payment may be made only in the cases stipulated separately by VPF,
if necessary due to the nature of the payment or for business purposes. [Link:
Guidelines for Immediate Payment]
26.3.1.31 Checking of Money
The Supervisor for receiving, paying and custody of money shall check the amount
of cash in hand against the cashbook at the end of each month, and the balance of
bank deposit, etc., against relevant accounting book at the end of each month.
26.3.1.32 Excess and Deficiency of Money
If any excess or deficiency of money is found, the Supervisor for receiving, paying
and custody of money shall immediately investigate into the cause, report it to the
Accounting Supervisor, and follow his or her instructions.
26.3.2 Funds
“Funds” shall mean any cash, deposits and securities that may be used for a payment.
26.3.2.1 Commission of Management of Funds
The management of funds shall be performed by the Vice President for Financial
Management.
26.3.2.2 Short-term Loans
The Vice President for Financial Management may raise money to cover any
temporary shortage of funds by obtaining short-term loans based on the approval
granted by the CEO/President and the COO.
26.3.2.2.1 The Vice President for Financial Management shall, in principle,
compile a cash flow projection under which any short-term loan may be
paid back within the same fiscal year.
26.3.2.3 Long-term Loans

10
ch26_finance-and-accounting_en_20180401_cl

The Corporation shall receive approval from Prime Minister when borrowing
funds with a payment period exceeding one year as stipulated in Article 10 of
Okinawa Institute of Science and Technology School Corporation Act [link: ].
26.3.3 Fixed Assets
Fixed assets shall include tangible fixed assets, intangible fixed assets, investments and
other assets. With regard to Fixed Assets, the terms and definitions below are applicable:
(1) Real estate: Land, buildings, structures, and usufructs
(2) Movable property etc.: Small-sum equipment, fixed assets other than intellectual
property rights and real estate etc., and books (Books managed as fixed assets, based on
the Accounting Standard[Link: https://groups.oist.jp/dfa/accounting-standard-oist-sc]
Article 42 of the University, shall be defined as the collection of the Library of the
Okinawa Institute of Science and Technology Graduate University ("the Library") which
acquired and managed by the Library.)
(3) Acquisition: Ownership or exclusive use of fixed assets and small-sum equipment
(hereinafter referred to as “fixed assets etc.”) from purchase, manufacturing, selfconstruction, donation, exchange, contribution, etc.
(4) Improvement: Implementing the necessary works for the operations of existing fixed
assets to increase their value and performance
(5) Conservation: Appropriately maintaining fixed assets etc. in accordance with their
purposes of use
(6) Transfer: Shifting the control of fixed assets etc. among Asset Use Supervisors
(7) Disposition: Selling, exchanging, disposing or donating fixed assets etc.
(8) Removal: Erasing the records of fixed assets etc. that have been disposed
26.3.3.1 Asset Management Supervisor
“Asset management” shall mean proper management of tangible and intangible
fixed assets including acquisition, operation and disposition thereof through
understanding the processes and conditions of receipt, payment and maintenance
thereof.
26.3.3.1.1 The Asset Management Supervisor shall prepare the asset
management ledger, execute the asset management, and make efforts to
utilize assets in the most effective way for researches.
26.3.3.1.2 The manager in charge of asset management in the Accounting
Section shall serve as the Asset Management Supervisor.
26.3.3.1.3 The Asset Management Supervisor may cause any other staff(s)
to handle any part of his or her business.

11
ch26_finance-and-accounting_en_20180401_cl

26.3.3.1.4 In the event that the Asset Management Supervisor is unable to
act, a person designated by the Vice President for Financial Management
shall act on his or her behalf.
26.3.3.2 Fixed Assets Etc. Management Works
The Asset Management Supervisor shall conduct the following works concerning
the management of fixed assets. (Asset management of books shall be governed
by the PRP Chapter 6. University Library.）
(1) Grasping the usage conditions of fixed assets etc.
(2) Procedure of permission for the lending and disposition of fixed assets
(3) Arranging Asset Management Ledgers
(4) Giving instructions and advice regarding the daily management of fixed assets
etc.
(5) Having Asset Use Supervisors specified in 26.3.3.3 inspect fixed assets each
fiscal year, and summarizing the findings
26.3.3.3 Asset Use Supervisors
The Asset Management Unit is defined as the Research Unit, Section, Division or
Office within the OIST School Corporation.
Asset Use Supervisors shall be the Faculty member for fixed assets in each research
unit, Section Leader for fixed assets in each section, and Manager or a person in
an equivalent position or above for fixed assets in each Division or Office
(excluding fixed assets that are supervised by Section Leaders),except for
following items..
(1)Asset Use Supervisor for the fixed assets etc. which are placed at shared
space for common use is as follows.
① Furniture (Lab benches, Furniture, Shelves, etc.): The appropriate
Section Leader of Buildings and Facilities Management Division
②Research Equipment (including refrigerators for research): appropriate
Section Leader of office of the Dean of Research
(2) Asset Use Supervisor for the fixed assets etc. which are not yet occupied
by specific users or were used by closed research units and until a new user is
found is as follows.
①Furniture (Lab benches, Furniture, Shelves, etc.): The budget appropriate
Section Leader of Buildings and Facilities Management Division
② Research Equipment (including refrigerators for research): The
appropriate Section Leader office of the Dean of Research
③IT fixed assets etc. : The appropriate Section Leader of office of the IT
Division
(3) Assets Use Supervisors for IT fixed assets, etc. shall be primarily Faculty
member in each research unit, Section Leader in each section, and Manager or
a person in an equivalent position or above in each Division or Office where
12
ch26_finance-and-accounting_en_20180401_cl

the IT fixed assets were purchased or transferred. (Asset management of IT
fixed assets etc. shall be governed by the PRP Chapter 17. Information
Technology and Security [link:]. )
26.3.3.3.1 Asset Use Supervisors shall receive fixed assets etc. from the
Asset Management Supervisor and work to have them used effectively in
research activities etc.
26.3.3.3.2 Asset Use Supervisors must observe the following items in the
use of fixed assets etc. in implementing their daily management.
(1) Clarify their conservation and usage conditions by using the
asset management list
(2) Carry out minor repairs
(3) Devise the necessary measures to prevent fires, theft, loss,
damage and other incidents
(4) Carry out inspections of fixed assets etc. and report findings
(5) Ensure the appropriate use of fixed assets etc.
26.3.3.4 Obligations of Fixed Asset Users
Fixed asset users must use fixed assets etc. under the management and supervision
of Asset Use Supervisors and treat them with care as good stewards.
26.3.3.5 Asset Management Ledgers
The asset management ledgers specified in 26.3.3.2 shall be as follows:
(1) Fixed asset ledger
(2) Loan ledger
(3) Borrow ledger
26.3.3.5.1 Fixed asset ledgers must be recorded under the categories
specified in Appended table[link: http://iwww.oist.jp/document/prpaux/26.3.3.5.1_ CategoriesforFixedAssetsLodgers_en.pdf].
26.3.3.6 Acquisition and Recording in the Fixed Asset Ledger
When fixed assets etc. are acquired, the Asset Management Supervisor must record
said assets etc. in the fixed asset ledger.
Provided, however, that if fixed assets are thrown in the ocean for marine
observation on the basis that they are not intended to be salvaged because of its
difficulty, the fixed assets are treated as consumables.
26.3.3.6.1 When movable property etc. is acquired, the Asset Management
Supervisor hands over identification labels to Asset Use Supervisor after
recording said property in the fixed asset ledger. Asset Use Supervisor must
promptly attach identification labels to the acquired movable property etc..
13
ch26_finance-and-accounting_en_20180401_cl

26.3.3.7 Acquisition Prices
The acquisition prices of fixed assets etc. shall be as follows:
(1) For purchased assets, the purchase price and incidental expenses
(2) For self-constructed assets, the overall cost calculated as the sum of the
proper cost prices
(3) For items donated or contributed, the fair assessed price based on
market value, etc.
(4) For items acquired through exchanges, the book value of the assets
given in exchange
26.3.3.8 Receipts of Donations and Exchanges
Receipts of donations and exchanges of fixed assets etc. must follow the prescribed
procedures.
26.3.3.9 Repairs
The Asset Use Supervisor must conduct repairs that are necessary to maintain the
functions of the concerned fixed assets.
26.3.3.10 Preservation of Rights
The Asset Management Supervisor must promptly register land, buildings and
other fixed assets that require registrations etc. promptly after acquisition in
accordance with the stipulations of the concerned laws to protect them from third
parties.
26.3.3.10.1 The Asset Management Supervisor must implement the
prescribed change procedures without delay whenever any changes arise to
the items recorded in the registrations etc. specified in 26.3.3.10.
26.3.3.11 Insurance
The Asset Management Supervisor must consider securing property insurance and
other necessary measures when deemed necessary for fixed assets subject to
accidents and other damages.
26.3.3.12 Usage
Asset Use Supervisors must always know who are the users of fixed assets etc.
26.3.3.13 Transfer
When fixed assets etc. is necessary for transfer, current Asset Use Supervisor of
the fixed assets etc. must consult with next Asset Use Supervisor on the transfer.
The former Asset Use Supervisor must promptly apply for the transfer request to
Asset Management Supervisor after the fixed assets etc. is transferred to the later
14
ch26_finance-and-accounting_en_20180401_cl

Asset Use Supervisor. Asset Management Supervisor must record the fixed assets
etc. in the fixed assets ledger after receiving the transfer request.
26.3.3.14 Lending
When the lending of fixed assets, etc. is deemed necessary and this does not
interfere with the works of the Corporation, the Accounting Supervisor may loan
the fixed assets, etc. to other parties in accordance with the following procedures.
26.3.3.14.1 The lending of important assets requires the approval of
CEO/President.
26.3.3.14.2 Lending Principles
Lending should be conducted with payment (hereinafter referred to as
“paid lending”). However, lending may be conducted without payment
(hereinafter referred to as “gratis lending”) with the approval same as the
provisions of 26.3.3.14 or 26.3.14.1 in any of the following cases
(1) When necessary for dissemination of public information
regarding the Corporation’s research findings or business, or
otherwise necessary for the execution of the Corporation’s business
(2) When lending fixed assets to national or regional public bodies,
non-profit foundations, or corporations established under special
acts, provided this does not interfere with the business of the
Corporation
(3) When lending fixed assets to universities and other research and
educational organizations, provided this does not interfere with the
business of the Corporation.
26.3.3.14.3 Lending Procedures
When lending fixed assets under the provisions of 26.3.3.14 or 26.3.3.14.1,
the Asset Management Supervisor must clarify the following items and
devise the necessary measures for the loans.
(1) Reason for lending and name of borrowing institution
(2) Names and numbers of fixed assets being loaned
(3) Specifications of fixed assets being loaned
(4) Loan periods
(5) Places of use and names of borrowers of fixed assets being
loaned
(6) Liability during loan period
(7) Other necessary items
However, these procedures may be omitted for items whose lending is
clarified beforehand under sponsored research agreements.

15
ch26_finance-and-accounting_en_20180401_cl

26.3.3.15 Disposition
When the Asset Management Supervisor receives fixed assets etc. returned by
Asset Use Supervisors, the Asset Management Supervisor must consider the
usability of the said fixed assets, etc. for others also examine the necessity of
disposition.
26.3.3.15.1 Unnecessary important assets which the Asset Use Supervisors
deem to be of no effective use (hereinafter referred to as “determined
unnecessary”) may be determined as unnecessary by the approval of the
CEO/President. Unnecessary fixed assets, etc. aside from important assets
may be determined as unnecessary by the Accounting Supervisor.
26.3.3.15.2 The disposition of important assets must obtain an approval
from the CEO/President. The disposition of fixed assets etc. aside from
important assets must obtain an approval from the Accounting Supervisor.
26.3.3.15.3 Disposition Principles
The Asset Management Supervisor must sell off fixed assets that have been
determined unnecessary under the provisions of 26.3.3.15.1. However,
items that cannot be sold off may be disposed.
26.3.3.16 Loss, Damage and Theft
When Asset Use Supervisors discover that fixed assets etc. under their custody
have been lost, damaged or stolen, they must promptly report to the Asset
Management Supervisor, investigate the present conditions, and work to prevent
impediments to the conduct of business, the expansion of damages, etc.
23.3.3.16.1 When the Asset Management Supervisor receives reports
regarding fixed assets etc. specified in 26.3.3.16, the Asset Management
Supervisor must promptly report to the Accounting Supervisor.
26.3.3.17 Sale
The Asset Management Supervisor must devise the necessary measures for
conducting sales under the provisions of 26.3.3.15.3.
26.3.3.18 Gratis Ownership Transfer
Although in principle the provisions of 26.3.3.15.3 apply in general, the Asset
Management Supervisor may transfer the ownership of fixed assets (excluding any
important asset specified by Cabinet Office Ordinance) determined unnecessary
under the provisions of 26.3.3.15.1, to institutions, organizations or individuals
without compensation (hereinafter referred to as “gratis ownership transfer”), with
the permission of the Accounting Supervisor, under any of the following
16
ch26_finance-and-accounting_en_20180401_cl

circumstances. However, gratis ownership transfer requires the approval of the
CEO/President if the fixed assets are important assets.
(1) When necessary for dissemination of public information regarding the
Corporation’s research findings or business, or otherwise necessary for the
execution of the Corporation’s business
(2) When transferring ownership of fixed assets to national or regional
public bodies, non-profit foundations, or corporations established under
special acts
(3) When transferring ownership of fixed assets to relevant local bodies for
the purpose of enhancing the relationships with OIST and the local
community
(4) When transferring ownership of fixed assets to universities and other
research and educational organizations
(5) When the removal costs clearly exceed the fixed assets’ value
(6) When OIST students need to use the fixed assets for academic research
after graduation
26.3.3.19 Removal
The Asset Management Supervisor must promptly remove fixed assets etc. under
the following circumstances:;
(1) When they are lost from accidents, theft, etc.
(2) When they have been disposed of and their ownership rights are
terminated; or
(3) When their use has ceased because they have become outdated or
inappropriate.
26.3.3.20 Construction in Progress Account
Expenditures on facilities that are newly constructed, expanded or improved under
construction contracts shall be recorded in the construction in progress account,
and then transferred to the appropriate accounts without delay once they are
provided for the conduct of business.
26.3.3.21 Capital Expenditures and Repair Expenses
Expenditures to improve the functions or extend the working lives of fixed assets
shall be added to the price of the concerned fixed assets.
26.3.3.21.1 Expenditures to maintain and conserve fixed assets shall be
handled as repair expenses.
26.3.3.22 Depreciation
Depreciation of any tangible and intangible fixed assets shall be calculated each
fiscal year.
17
ch26_finance-and-accounting_en_20180401_cl

26.3.3.22.1 Depreciation Method
The initial month for the depreciation of depreciable fixed assets shall be
the month in which said assets are acquired and begin to be used.
1. Depreciable assets shall be depreciated using the straightline method.
2. The residual value of tangible fixed assets shall be 1 yen of
memorandum price of the acquisition price, and the residual
value of intangible fixed assets shall be zero.
3. The service life which is the basis for the depreciation shall
be as specified by the Corporation Tax Law (Law No. 34 of
1965). However, the service life of depreciable assets
acquired for special research purposes under sponsored
research budgets etc. shall be the period until the sponsored
research is completed. The service life of depreciable assets
acquired through the donation of used assets etc. shall be
calculated using the simplified method stipulated by the
Ministerial Ordinance on the Service Life Etc. of
Depreciable Assets (Ministry of Finance Ordinance No. 15
of March 31, 1965).
4. The accounting of other items not specified above shall be
in accordance with laws and regulations, etc.
26.3.3.23 Valuation Losses
Extraordinary depreciation must be charged in cases when the functional value of
fixed assets is conspicuously impaired because of the discovery of new
technologies or other external developments that could not be foreseen when their
service lives were estimated.
26.3.3.23.1 In cases when fixed assets are destroyed due to accidental
events such as disasters and other incidents, the amount of the lost value
must be deducted from the concerned assets’ book value.
26.3.3.24 Report by Asset Management Supervisor
The Asset Management Supervisor shall, at each account settlement, report
accounting information regarding fixed assets to the Accounting Supervisor.
26.3.3.25 Inspections
Asset Use Supervisors must inspect the conditions of tangible fixed assets in their
custody once every fiscal year, confirm that their management conditions and
ledger records are accurate, and report to the Asset Management Supervisor.

18
ch26_finance-and-accounting_en_20180401_cl

26.3.3.25.1 Regardless of the stipulations of 26.3.3.25, when the location
of the assets, etc. is changed by moving of office or research laboratory or
whenever deemed necessary the Asset Management Supervisor may
instruct Asset Use Supervisors to implement inspections and submit reports.
26.3.3.25.2 When Asset Use Supervisors recognize any discrepancies
between assets and their ledger records, they must investigate the causes of
said discrepancies, report to the Asset Manager, devise countermeasures to
address the cause of the discrepancies, and work to prevent recurrence.
26.3.3.26 Borrowed Assets
The Corporation must prepare management ledgers and otherwise handle
borrowed assets in the same manner as fixed assets. However, this may be omitted
in cases when assets are borrowed for temporary use.
26.3.3.26.1 Asset Use Managers must promptly report to the Asset
Management supervisor when they borrow fixed assets etc.
26.3.3.27 Small-sum Equipment
The small-sum equipment shall mean movable property (excluding cash and
securities) with an acquisition price of at least ¥100,000 and less than ¥500,000
that is expected to be used for at least one year.
26.3.3.28 High Liquidity Consumables
Among movable properties with acquisition prices of less than 100,000 JPY, those
considered to have high liquidity (hereafter, “High Liquidity Consumables”)
require more appropriate management and use, in order to prevent misconduct. The
Vice President for Financial Management shall separately specify the items and
management procedure of High Liquidity Consumables. [Link;]
26.3.4 Inventory Assets
“Inventory assets” shall mean publications (printed material), research materials and
inventories of merchandise and supplies.
26.3.4.1 Management of Inventory Assets
Budget supervisors[link: 27.4.4] shall prepare inventory asset management ledgers,
record receipts and payments of such assets, and make clear the inventory balance
at all times.
26.3.4.2 Physical Inventory Check and Report
Budget supervisors[link: 27.4.4] shall conduct a physical inventory check at the
end of each fiscal year and report the result to the Accounting Supervisor.
19
ch26_finance-and-accounting_en_20180401_cl

26.3.5 Account Settlement
The purpose of account settlement is to clarify the financial conditions and administrative
performance at the end of each fiscal year through organizing accounting records of the
fiscal year.
26.3.5.1 Monthly Settlement of Accounts
To clarify monthly financial conditions, the Accounting Supervisor shall create the
documents prescribed by 26.3.5.2.
26.3.5.2 Monthly Report
The documents stipulated in 26.3.5.1shall be those stated in the following:
(1) Compound trial balance
(2) Documents required to be submitted to the Board of Audit in
accordance with Article 69 of the Accounting Proof Rules (Board of Audit
Ordinance No. 3 of June 7, 1952)
26.3.5.3 Monthly Settlement of Accounts
The Accounting Supervisor must execute the steps stated in the following to
prepare the monthly report stipulated in 26.3.5.1.
(1) Collating the compound trial balance and the Table of Budget Use
Status
(2) Validation of details of receivables, payables, and suspense account
(3) Collating the fixed asset books and the fixed asset account ledger
26.3.5.4 Yearly Settlement of Accounts
The Accounting Supervisor shall perform required procedures for the yearly
settlement of accounts, compile drafts of financial statements, etc. as prescribed by
the Okinawa Institute of Science and Technology Act, and report them to the
CEO/President.
26.3.5.4.1 The CEO/President shall determine such financial statements.
26.3.5.5 Financial Statements, etc.
The CEO/President shall submit to the Prime Minister the financial statements,
etc., prescribed in 26.3.5.4 along with the Auditor's opinions within three (3)
months after the closing of each fiscal year.
26.3.6 Compensation Liability
Officers and staffs of the Corporation (“officers and staffs”) shall comply with the laws
and ordinances that are applied (mutatis mutandis) to the financial and accounting affairs
of the Corporation and these Regulations, and perform their duties with the care of a good
manager.
20
ch26_finance-and-accounting_en_20180401_cl

26.3.6.1 In the event that any officer or staff causes, either intentionally or by gross
negligence, any damages to the Corporation in violation of 26.3.6, the officer or
the staff causing such damages shall be liable to compensate such damages.
26.3.6.2 Report of Loss, etc.
Any loss or extinguishment of or damage to any of the Corporation’s money,
securities, fixed assets or any other assets shall be reported to the CEO/President,
by the officer causing such damages if such damages are caused by an officer, or
by the head of the department to which the staff causing such damages belongs if
such damages are caused by a staff.
26.3.6.3 Determination of Compensation Liability and Compensation Order
The CEO/President shall determine the existence or non-existence of liability to
compensate under 26.3.6.1 and 26.3.6.2 hereof and the amount thereof.
26.3.7 Corporate Credit Cards
In principle, the University makes payments by bank transfer after delivery of goods or
completion of services, in order to minimize the risk in trading. However, for cases where
payment by a credit card is necessary or required by the selected vendor, a corporate credit
card can be used for the transaction in compliance with the University rules.
26.3.7.1
Types of Corporate Credit Cards
The University has three types of corporate credit cards: central corporate card,
purchasing cards (P-cards), and individual corporate cards. Major features of each
card type are summarized in the Table I below.
Table I: Major Features of OIST Corporate Credit Cards
＜See attached＞
26.3.7.2
Card Administrator
In order to administer appropriate usage of corporate credit cards, the University
assigns one card administrator to each card type as follows.
Card type
Card
Administrator

Central
Corporate
Card
VPF

P-card
VPF

Individual
Corporate
Card
VPF

26.3.7.3
Card User and Card Supervisor
University officer/staff eligible to use a corporate credit card (card user) and those
eligible to supervise the usage (card supervisor) are defined by card type in the
following table.
21
ch26_finance-and-accounting_en_20180401_cl

Card type
Card User

Card
Supervisor

Central
Corporate
Card
Division of
Financial
Management
staff

P-card
Staff different
from, and
assigned by, the
card supervisor

Division of
Financial
Management
Manager

Individual
Corporate
Card
President

Same as above
Budget
supervisor (VP
level) or budget
holder (Faculty,
Section leader
level)

26.3.7.4
Application and Issuance of Corporate Credit Card
Card applications must be completed by the card supervisor and submitted to the
relevant card administrator. For P-card applications by an AVP or Section Leader,
approval of the relevant budget supervisor (VP level) is required upon application.
The card administrator reviews applications for a corporate credit card and
approves or rejects. If approved, a corporate credit card will be issued and delivered
after the card supervisor has completed the appropriate training on corporate credit
card usage, responsibilities, and accountability associated with the corporate credit
card (Exception: central corporate card).
26.3.7.5
Corporate Credit Card Use Workflow
Card supervisors of a corporate credit card must use the card by following the
workflow defined separately [link: ].
26.3.7.6
Uses Allowed and Not Allowed
Corporate credit card usage is strictly limited to regular university-related business
purchases and strictly prohibited for personal expenses and business expenses
comingled with non-business expenses. Purchases must be approved in the ERP
system prior to the transaction.
Central corporate card can be used upon request by a Unit/Section. In principle,
the P-card and Individual Corporate Card Guideline [link: ] applies regarding uses
allowed with a corporate credit card. However, when it is not practical to apply the
above Guideline, central corporate card can be used for transactions specifically
authorized as necessary by the Accounting Supervisor or the person to whom the
Accounting Supervisor delegates central corporate card related duties..
For P-cards and individual corporate cards, uses allowed and not allowed are
detailed in the P-card and Individual Corporate Card Guideline [link:]. In case of

22
ch26_finance-and-accounting_en_20180401_cl

doubt, the card supervisor should confirm the eligibility of the transaction with
staff in charge in the Division of Financial Management.
26.3.7.7

Responsibility

26.3.7.7.1
Card Administrator
The card administrator is responsible for overall administration of the
relevant corporate credit cards (such as reviewing card applications,
approving corporate credit card issuance, and terminating corporate credit
cards) and monitoring of the compliance with policies, rules and procedures.
In case of misuse, the card administrator will respond in accordance with
Chapter 26.3.7.8 . The card administrator is responsible for developing,
updating, and administering relevant guidelines.
26.3.7.7.2
Card Supervisor of P-cards and Individual Corporate Cards
The card supervisors of P-cards and individual corporate cards shall
understand that expenses paid with the corporate credit card will be settled
directly from the University account and that irregular use of these
corporate credit cards brings an audit and financial risk to the University. It
is the card supervisor’s responsibility to ensure the corporate credit card is
used in compliance with PRP Chapters 26 through 29, the P-card and
Individual Corporate card Guideline [link:], and future stipulation relevant
to the corporate credit card.
The card supervisors must reconcile all transactions with an approved
Purchase Order number (PO#) and submit required documents by the
deadline set in the workflow [link:]. The card supervisors must make sure
all ordered goods and services are delivered by the end of the fiscal year by
carefully monitoring the delivery status.
The University will hold the card supervisor fully responsible for all
unauthorized transactions (See 26.3.7.6 Uses Allowed and Not Allowed),
transactions followed by non-delivery of ordered items or services, and
transactions without appropriate reconciliation with an approved Purchase
Order number (PO#) by the document submission deadline. For such
transactions, the card supervisor shall reimburse the amount to the
University as soon as possible after the fact occurred. The University may
agree with card supervisors in advance to deduct the amount from the card
supervisor’s salary if the reimbursement is not made in a timely manner.
26.3.7.7.3
Card User
The card user must carefully handle and store the card information. The
card information should not be posted, emailed or visible in any place that
is accessible by others. The card user may not share the card information
with anyone else.
23
ch26_finance-and-accounting_en_20180401_cl

26.3.7.8
Misuse of Corporate Credit Card
Misuse of a corporate credit card, intentional or accidental, is a violation of the
University PRP (See also Chapters 28.2.3 and 29.1). In case of misuse, the card
administrator will issue a warning and may decide suspension of the corporate
credit card. It may result in other disciplinary action depending on the seriousness
of the violation, in accordance with PRP 38 “Discipline”.
26.3.7.9
Lost or Stolen Corporate Credit Card
If a corporate credit card or card information is lost or stolen, the card supervisor
shall immediately notify the card administrator, the card issuer, and the local police.
The card supervisor is liable for the damage caused by a fraudulent activity, unless
it is covered by the card issuer as described in card issuer’s contract.
26.3.7.10
Returning P-card Information and Individual Corporate Cards
Card supervisors of P-cards and individual corporate cards must return the
corporate credit card to the card issuer via the card administrator when:
26.3.7.10.1
26.3.7.10.2
University.
26.3.7.10.3

The card supervisor leaves the University.
The card user of the P-card moves to another position in the
The University or the card issuer requests.

26.3.7.11
Cancellation of Corporate Credit Card
Corporate credit cards may be terminated at any time by the University.
26.3.8 Miscellaneous Provisions
26.3.8.1 Restatement of accounts
OIST may, on its own decision, prepare financial statements based on
internationally recognized accounting standard in addition to the ones based on
OIST regular accounting standards, in order to facilitate its understanding by
international donors or provider of funds and increase accountability and
transparency. These restatements would be controlled by accounting auditors.
26.3.9 Storage of Documents
Accounting books, vouchers and documents shall be stored for the following period:
(1) financial statements, etc. = permanently
(2) general ledger = 30 years
(3) other accounting books = 10 years
(4) slips and vouchers = 10 years

24
ch26_finance-and-accounting_en_20180401_cl

26.4 Responsibilities
26.5 Procedures
26.6 Forms
26.7 Contacts
26.7.1 Policy Owner: Vice President for Financial Management
26.7.2 Other Contacts: Accounting Section
26.8 Definitions
26.9 Appendices & Table
Appendices & Table[link:]

25
ch26_finance-and-accounting_en_20180401_cl

OIST Graduate University
Polices, Rules & Procedures
Authority:
 Approved by the President
 Private School Act

Chapter 27: Budget planning, execution and monitoring
27.1 Policy
The University’s budget planning process aims at allocating its resources and at
maximizing their utilization to achieve the University’s strategic mission.
The goal of the budget execution monitoring is to provide accurate information to
managers responsible for the use of the University’s funds and to assist them in the
exercise of their responsibility.
These two functions, planning and monitoring, also provide the President and the
Board of Governors (BOG) and the Board of Councilors (BOC) with an analytical tool
enabling them to oversee the financial operations, status, and health of the
University.
The University has a responsibility to submit an annual budget plan to the BOG each
year.
This policy outlines the University’s annual budget process and describes the budget
components and other related procedures integral to the process.
This policy applies to all University administrative divisions, research units and
affiliated programs in their preparation and management of operating and capital
budgets.
27.2 General Considerations
The budget breakdown structure is designed to reflect as much as possible the
University organizational and management structure, allowing for a clear
identification of responsibilities and accountabilities.
The exercise of budgetary responsibilities requires easy access to accurate and timely
information on budget execution status. The University implements an ERP system
that enables such access. Budget Supervisors and Budget Holders must be familiar
with this system before accepting budgetary responsibility.
The President undertakes budget allocation upon delegation from the BOG, which
has the ultimate authority and responsibility for the management and operation of
the Corporation, through the Vice President for Financial Management, under the
supervision of COO. The Vice President for Financial Management sub-delegates his
Page 1 of 16
ch27_budget-planning-execution-and-monitoring_en_20180401_cl

responsibility for budget planning and execution to the Vice President or equivalent
(see 2.4.5 [link: 2.4.5]) accountable for budget execution.
Budget revisions and reallocations are possible after the initial budget allocation.
Income and Expenditure Budget consists the budget of the University. The budget of
the University consolidates all University sources of funding, and all its operation
expenses and capital expenditures, including building and facilities.
27.3 Rules
27.3.1 Budget term
The budget term of the University is April 1st to March 31st.
27.3.2 Budgetary Breakdown Structure, Budgetary Units and budget
authority
The budget of the University is compiled, executed and monitored according to
a hierarchical structure, the Budgetary Breakdown Structure that reflects the
University organization to the largest possible extent (fig. 1).

Page 2 of 16
ch27_budget-planning-execution-and-monitoring_en_20180401_cl

Figure 1
The Budget Breakdown Structure
Organization
Structure

Budget
Ownership

Budgetary
Structure

School Corp.

President
COO, VPF

Budgetary
Unit L1

Budget Holder
Faculties, Section Leaders

of

of

Report

Budgetary
Unit L3
Funding 3

Funding 2

Funding 1

Sections,
Research Units
Groups,
Projects, etc.

Budgetary
Unit L2

of

Must
delegate

Source

Divisions,
Office, etc.

Budget Supervisor
Executive Vice President, Vice
Presidents, and Deans

Source

Report

Source

Allocate

Each Budgetary Unit is managed by a budget owner: “Budget Supervisor” at the
Division level/Office equivalent or “Budget Holder” for Research Unit/Section
level and below.
Budget Holders are responsible for the budget execution of his/her budgetary
unit(s). The responsibilities for the Division budget execution lies with the Budget
Supervisor at the Division level (See Tab. 1).

Page 3 of 16
ch27_budget-planning-execution-and-monitoring_en_20180401_cl

Table 1
Budget Supervisor’s Title
Person designated by the chair of
the BOG (VP or above)
President
COO
Executive Vice President for
Technology Development and
Innovation
Dean of the Graduate School
Dean of Research
Vice President for Information
Technology
Dean of the Faculty Affairs

Division/Office, etc.
Office, etc. under the Board of Governors
Office
Office, etc. under the President
Office, etc. under the COO
Division, etc. under the Executive Vice
President
Office, etc. under the Dean of the Graduate
School
Office/Units, etc. under the Dean of
Research
Division, etc. under the Vice president

Office, etc. under the Dean of the Faculty
Affairs
Vice President for Gender Equality Division under the Vice President
and Human Resource
Development
Vice President for Financial
Division under the Vice President
Management
Vice President for Communication Division under the Vice President
and Public Relations
Vice President for Buildings and
Division under the Vice President
Facilities Management
Auditors
Office under the Auditor
Budget Supervisors (Vice President and equivalent) must distribute the budget
at section level.
Regardless of the above, for external funding, such as Kakenhi and Funded
Research, a grantee or a principal investigator of the contract becomes the
Budget Holder.
In the event that a Budget Supervisor is unable to act or a position becomes
vacant, the COO shall appoint a proxy to whom budgetary authority is formally
delegated until the position has been filled.
27.3.3 Budget Breakdown Units
Budget Breakdown units are the lowest budgetary breakdown of the University
for budget allocation and reporting. Budget Supervisors are responsible for
defining the Budget Breakdown Units structure and denomination under the
Section level of the organization.
Budget Breakdown Units have two functions: a) to provide a level of precision
in the budget planning and budget execution that allows accurate monitoring
and informed decisions and b) to facilitate adjustment of budget structure in
Page 4 of 16
ch27_budget-planning-execution-and-monitoring_en_20180401_cl

case of organizational changes by allowing redistribution of coherent Budget
Breakdown Units that preserve tracking continuity and possibility of year to
year comparison despite changes of perimeters.
27.3.3.1 Budget Breakdown Units attached to Sources of funding
The funding of the University comes from various sources with specific
requirements and restrictions on how these funds may be used and
reported. In order to facilitate recording and reporting of these funds
utilization, it is necessary to create separate Budget Breakdown Units
for each funding source. It is the responsibility of each Budget
Supervisor and of the relevant sections leaders under his/her
supervision1 to inform the Budget Section when they receive external
funding and to communicate corresponding recording and reporting
requirements.
27.3.3.2 Combining different source of funding
Combining different source of funding is allowed unless it is prohibited
by laws and/or the rules of particular subsidies, and other source of
funding.
Budget Supervisors are responsible for confirming those constraints
and informing the Budget Section.
27.3.3.3 Budget Breakdown Units attached to deposit in favor of
Researchers, Students
Many subsidies, grants, scholarship etc. are granted to individual
researchers but may be under the custody of their host institution
which is required to manage the funds on their behalf. In such cases,
funds are treated as deposits and their use is reported on behalf of the
recipient. The Budget Supervisor of these external funding treated as
deposits is responsible for informing the Budget Section of specific
constraints before funds consumption actually occurs. Specific Budget
Breakdown Units are created to enable the monitoring of these
individual funds.
27.3.3.4 Budget Breakdown Units and coordinated projects
Specific activities or projects are carried out under the responsibility of
a project manager/Budget Holder but require coordinated actions and
spending from different part of the organization. In such case a specific
Budget Breakdown Unit is created within the section of the Budget
Holder of the project, with a budget to which other sections involved in
the project may access. This allows the project manager to monitor the
project budget execution despite the diversity of spending sections.
1

The Sponsored Research Section works particularly closely with the Budget Section to ensure timely
and accurate reporting to funding agencies.

Page 5 of 16
ch27_budget-planning-execution-and-monitoring_en_20180401_cl

The Budget Supervisor of the section holding “project Budget
Breakdown Units” is responsible for communicating its specific
requirements, use restrictions or other information to the “Budget
Section”.
27.3.4 Main Budget categories for expenditure
27.3.4.1 Budget categories for subsidies for operation and subsidies for
construction
The University uses several main budget categories for compilation and
monitoring of its budget allocation and execution. These categories
may vary with different sources of funding (see 27.3.4.2 [link:
27.3.4.2]).
Categories “by default” for subsidies for operation and all other
unrestricted sources of funding are:
1
Personnel expenses (PEREX)
2
Operational expenses, non personnel (OPEX)
3
Capital expenditure (CAPEX)
Categories “by default” for subsidies for construction are:
1
Construction work
2
Ancillary cost
These main categories are broken down in more detailed subcategories.
The University budgetary system used by all Budget Supervisors and
Budget Holders is based upon this allocation structure.
27.3.4.2 Specific budget categories for different sources of funding
Funding agencies, Foundations, research sponsors have often specific
requirements for reporting the use of their funds. The Budget
Supervisor of the receiving Division is responsible for communicating
these specific requirements, any use restrictions or other information
on use of funds to the “Budget Section”.
Budgeting the use of common and shared facilities and
equipment
The University encourages sharing of its resources such as facilities and
equipment. These common resources are under the responsibility of specific
sections which must also budget for their acquisition, maintenance and
operation.
Users of these common and shared facilities and equipment must budget only
for the direct costs associated with their specific utilization (mostly
27.3.5

Page 6 of 16
ch27_budget-planning-execution-and-monitoring_en_20180401_cl

consumable). It is not necessary to budget for the fraction of the total
operating cost corresponding to their use time.
However, the University will implement, in some situation, a cost monitoring
of these common and shared facilities and equipment and report this cost to
the users, for information and benchmarking.
27.4 Authorities & Responsibilities
27.4.1 Board of Governors (BOG)
The BOG makes decisions on the budget and financial plans and oversees the
budget execution of the Corporation. (Article 3, Paragraph 1, item 10 of the
Rules for the operation of the BOG [link: http://iwww.oist.jp/document/prpaux/99_BOGRule.pdf])
27.4.2 Board of Councilors (BOC)
The President must hear the opinions of the BOC beforehand regarding the
following items.
(1) Handling of budgets
(2) Acceptance of new obligations or release of rights outside the budget
(Article 21 of the Bylaws [link:
https://groups.oist.jp/sites/default/files/imce/u113/oistsc_bylaws.pdf])
27.4.3 President
The President receives delegation from the BOG for the management of the
University and is responsible and accountable for the execution of the annual
plan and corresponding budget. The President reviews and is accountable for
the budget plans submitted by the Budget Supervisors of each Division. The
President may delegate some of his/her duties necessary for such purpose to
the Vice President for Financial Management, under the supervision of the
COO.
The University budget plans shall be compiled by the President before the
beginning of each fiscal year, and must be approved at a BOG meeting. This
shall also apply when any major changes are instituted to budgets plans.
After approval of the business and budget plans by the BOG, the COO informs
the University staff in order to enhance transparency and accountability
regarding the next year’s business plan specifying budget priorities and
implementation.
27.4.4 Budget Supervisors
Budget Supervisors are responsible for the timely and reliable planning and
careful implementation within the limitation of the budget approved of their
Division’s budget through efficient operation and strict monitoring.
Page 7 of 16
ch27_budget-planning-execution-and-monitoring_en_20180401_cl

27.4.5 Vice President for Financial Management
The Vice President for Financial Management shall be responsible for all
aspects of the budget and have the responsibility, as the head of the Financial
Management Division, to proceed with budget planning and compilation for
the entire University, communication and negotiation with the Cabinet Office
in the course of making budget requests to the Government, formulation of
plans for budget allocation within the University, execution and execution
monitoring of the determined budget plans, and other tasks, under the
supervision of the President and the COO.
With respect to the monitoring of budget execution, the Vice President for
Financial Management shall confirm the budget execution results of each
Budgetary Unit for the month and submit the Budget execution status report
to the Budget Supervisors, the COO and the President every month.
In addition, the Vice President for Financial Management shall review the
budget execution results of each Division after the closing of each fiscal year
and submit an annual report to the President and to the BOG.
27.4.6 Budget Section
The Budget Section shall perform operations necessary for budget planning
and compilation for the entire University, communication and negotiation
with the Cabinet Office in the course of making budget requests to the
Government, formulation of plans for budget allocation within the University,
execution and execution monitoring of the determined budget plans, and
other tasks, under the supervision of the Vice President for Financial
Management.
In addition, the Budget Section is responsible for monitoring all budgeted
funds appropriated by the University as approved by the BOG, and subject to
mandates, regulations and procedures established by the University or by the
institutions providing the funds.
27.4.7 University personnel
27.4.7.1 Appropriate use of the University budget
All University personnel are responsible for timely and reliable
execution of their task within the limit of the budget allocated to their
Budgetary Units, in accordance with the regulations of the University.
27.4.7.2 Familiarity with, and use of supporting IT infrastructure
The University uses the ERP system to compile, execute and manage its
budget. This system supports most financial transactions of the
University and is the basis for budget execution monitoring. All
University personnel having disbursement or budgetary responsibility

Page 8 of 16
ch27_budget-planning-execution-and-monitoring_en_20180401_cl

are expected to be trained and familiar with the functions necessary to
the effective fulfillment of their tasks.
27.4.7.3 Budget Analysts
The Budget Analysts at their respective Divisions shall offer practical
support for the Budget Supervisors with regard to budget planning and
compilation, preparation of budget request materials, budget execution
and execution management, for which the Budget Supervisors are
responsible.
27.5 Procedures
27.5.1 Budget planning and compilation
Budget planning shall be performed by the respective Budget
Supervisors in accordance with the procedures set forth in Section 27.5.
Budget compilation at the University level shall be performed by the
Vice President for Financial Management under the supervision of the
COO and determined by the President.
Budget Supervisors must submit budget plans with sufficient details.
Operation expenses and capital expenditures must be itemized to be
able to justify their budget request.
The budgeting of personnel salaries is complex because it includes
indirect costs related to taxes and benefits. For that reason, even if
personnel salaries are charged to their Budgetary Units, they are not
directly managed by the Budget Supervisors at the time of the budget
allocation. However, the Budget Supervisors are responsible for the
management of the personnel whom they supervise and must plan for
headcount and qualifications at section levels and for minimizing the
amount of overtime, which is not budgeted.
27.5.2 Multi-annual planning
The University plans its budget and monitors its execution on an annual
basis. Accounting rules applying to the main source of the University
funding, subsidies for Operation from the Japanese Government
(Hojokin) do not allow for multiannual budgeting, in principle.
When other sources of funding allow the University to make a multiannual plan or when a project requires multi-annual budget planning,
the Budget Supervisors and the Budget Section shall consider how to
include such needs in the planning process. The Budget Supervisor
requiring multi-annual budget planning is responsible for
communicating its specific requirements to the Budget Section.
Please see the guidelines of multi-year contract and contract crossing
the fiscal year end [link: ].
Page 9 of 16
ch27_budget-planning-execution-and-monitoring_en_20180401_cl

27.5.3 Annual Budget Cycle for Government subsidies
Each Budget Supervisor shall draft his or her Division’s budget request
for the coming fiscal year and necessary materials in accordance with
the budget request schedule presented by the Vice President for
Financial Management. This draft is structured according to Budgetary
Units and Budget categories confirmed by the Budget Section.
After consolidation, the Vice President for Financial Management shall
inform the Cabinet Office of the amount requested for Subsidies for
Operations and Subsidies for Construction, under the supervision of the
COO. There are several iterations between the University and Cabinet
Office before the budget request is finalized. During such process, the
Cabinet Office might request us to provide additional explanatory
materials that are necessary for the budget request, in which case the
Budget Supervisor for the relevant budget item shall be responsible for
preparing the appropriate materials within the deadline.
Advance notification on the Subsidies for Operation and for
Construction for the coming fiscal year set forth in the government
budget draft is usually given by the Cabinet Office at the end of
December. However, the government budget draft is officially be
approved by the Diet. Said approval is generally be granted at the end of
March; however, it is subject to change to some extent.
27.5.4 Initial budget request by Budget Supervisors (PEREX, OPEX
AND CAPEX)
27.5.4.1 Personnel plan and salaries budgeting
Budget Supervisors must submit their personnel plan for the coming
year at the time of the first budget compilation, after careful review of
current internal situation and staff availability and expected workload
for next fiscal year.
The estimate of corresponding salaries shall be made by the Gender
Equality and Human Resource Development Division on the basis of
this information.
After consolidation, in accordance with the same procedure applicable
to the University budget in general, the Vice President for Gender
Equality and Human Resource Development shall conduct compilation
and consult with the Vice President for Financial Management
concerning the PEREX budget under the supervision of the COO, with
necessary adjustment being reviewed by the COO and the Executives
and with the final decision being made by the President.
27.5.4.2 Capital expenditure (CAPEX) plan – Research equipment and
software
The Dean of Research shall collect and compile opinions of faculty
Page 10 of 16
ch27_budget-planning-execution-and-monitoring_en_20180401_cl

members and other persons concerned on the CAPEX plan for research
equipment while the Vice President for Information Technology shall
collect and compile opinions of faculty members and other persons
concerned on the CAPEX plan for IT and software.
In order to avoid unnecessary duplication of research
equipment/software and to maximize sharing, research
equipment/software purchases and renewal plans shall be reviewed for
equipment with purchasing costs of JPY 3M or more.
Equipment purchase requests must include the direct cost and other
ancillary costs such as laboratory fitting cost, maintenance cost,
additional personnel cost etc.
The CAPEX for those other than research equipment, IT and software
shall be compiled by the Financial Management Division and
incorporated into the budget compilation together with the CAPEX for
research equipment, IT and software and adjusted by the Vice
President for Financial Management under the supervision of the COO
and determined by the President.
27.5.5 Annual budget allocation of subsidies for operation (OPEX
and CAPEX)
27.5.5.1 Annual budget allocation of subsidies for operation
At the beginning of the budget compilation process, the President shall,
based on advice from the Vice President for Financial Management,
make a first allocation of subsidies for operations (OPEX and CAPEX)
and headcounts to each Budget Supervisor on the basis of preliminary
assumptions (“top down allocation”).
The Resource Allocation Committee (RAC) is responsible for advising
the President through the Executive Committee on the budget
allocations. The Terms of Reference and the membership of the RAC
shall be stipulated separately by the COO.
The Budget Supervisors are responsible for allocation of subsidies for
operation between OPEX and CAPEX within their Divisions down to
the Budget Breakdown Unit level. They are also required to confirm
their personnel plan (headcounts and qualifications). After
consolidation, necessary adjustment shall be reviewed and subjected to
approval by the COO.
27.5.5.2 Budget pre-allocation
For activities starting at the beginning of the new Fiscal Year such as
annual contracts which must be tendered several weeks before actual
start, events with fixed dates etc. it may be necessary to allocate a
Page 11 of 16
ch27_budget-planning-execution-and-monitoring_en_20180401_cl

budget even before the start of the fiscal year (budget pre-allocation).
Such pre-allocations are exceptional and must be requested to the Vice
President for Financial Management.
It must be noted that the pre-allocation is for budget management
convenience but is not a firm allocation. It cannot be contracted or
encumbered before the actual budget has been confirmed on April 1st of
the new fiscal year. It is the Budget Supervisor’s responsibility to not
encumber the amount pre-allocated before it is legally permitted.
27.5.5.3 Contingency budget
The President may request the Vice President for Financial
Management to set aside contingency funds in order to respond in a
timely manner to unexpected events, including emergency actions for
natural disasters. Contingency budgets cannot be set aside by the
Budget Supervisors, but they may request that the Vice President for
Financial Management set aside a specific contingency budget only if
an appropriate justification exists.
27.5.5.4 Unallocated Budget
The Vice President for Financial Management may, upon consultation
with the President and the COO, decide to not allocate a fraction of
funds available at the time of the annual budget allocation when further
studies are required before these funds can be budgeted with sufficient
accuracy and reliability.
27.5.6 Allocation of overheads from external funding sources
Overheads from external funding received by the University are consolidated
in the budget of the President Office, regardless of the primary beneficiary of
this external funding. The Vice President for Financial Management shall
prepare a draft of allocation of these overhead costs in accordance with the
needs of the University and the expenditure rules of the relevant funding
organization before the COO makes a decision on the allocation.
Unless separately provided for by the relevant funding organization, the
amount the University request for overheads shall be 30% of the total amount
received.
The allocation of Indirect Cost of Competitive Grants shall be determined by
the COO in accordance with the University’s Guidelines for Indirect Cost of
Competitive Grants [link:]
27.5.7 Construction plan
The Vice President for Building and Facilities Management is primarily
responsible for the allocation of funds available for construction, in
accordance with the categories of subsidies received (subsidies for operation
and subsidies for construction), and he or she shall periodically consult with
Page 12 of 16
ch27_budget-planning-execution-and-monitoring_en_20180401_cl

the COO, the Vice President for Financial Management and the Associate Vice
President for Administrative Compliance regarding appropriate budgetary
execution.
This allocation is consolidated into the general budget of the University by the
Budget Section.
27.5.8 Budget allocation in ERP system and ERP-HR
The President shall allocate budgets to be supervised by each Budget
Supervisor. The actual allocated amounts can be confirmed in the ERP
system.
27.5.9 Budget execution in ERP system
All financial transactions have to be recorded in the ERP system.
27.5.9.1 “Before the fact” ERP system entry
Execution of budget always has to be recorded in the ERP system prior
to the actual action of execution such as initiating a tender with an
estimated price, signing a contract, making an order, arranging a
business trip, planning an event that requires a payment of
honorarium.
The University may not accept the delivery of goods, service and/nor be
able to reimburse the cost if transactions are not recorded “before the
fact.”
This is necessary to allow an up to date and reliable projection of the
University commitment towards its creditors.
27.5.10 Budget execution monitoring and adjustments
27.5.10.1
Monitoring of budget execution
The budget execution status of each Division is reviewed by the Vice
President for Financial Management with the Budget Supervisors.
Budget execution status reports are generated to serve as a reference.
The budget execution monitoring report is structured according to
Budgetary Unit levels.
27.5.10.2
Revision of Budget
The budget established at the beginning of the fiscal year serves as a
reference and cannot be modified. However, circumstances may
impose a revision of the budget projection during the fiscal year. The
Budget Section proceeds with an annual budget allocation re-estimate
when it is necessary.
Decisions on these additional budget revisions are made by the COO in
consultation with the Vice President for Financial Management when it
is apparent that one or more Divisions will overspend or underspend,
thus requiring a revision of budget allocation and arbitration.
Page 13 of 16
ch27_budget-planning-execution-and-monitoring_en_20180401_cl

The revised budget and the redistributed budget (refer to Section
27.5.10.5) shall be registered in the ERP-Core system by the Budget
Section and become the new reference against which the budget
execution is monitored. The initial budget remains as a baseline
reference.
27.5.10.3
Over spending in a section within a Division
When over spending is anticipated in one Budgetary Unit, the Budget
Supervisor of the Division to which this Unit belongs should first
compensate this overspending with savings made in other sections
under his/her responsibility.
In case the source of funding allows multi annual budget management
the Budget Supervisor should take the necessary measures to correct
the overspending in one year from savings made in the subsequent
year(s).
27.5.10.4
Under spending
When a Budget Supervisor anticipates that his/her Division will not use
its entire budget, he/she should notify the Vice President for Financial
Management as soon as possible in order to enable a corporate-wide
budget redistribution aimed at efficient use of budgeted amounts. Once
this notification is accepted, the budget registered in the ERP system
will be revised accordingly as soon as possible by Budget Section.
27.5.10.5
Redistribution of budget amount within and across main
budget categories by Budget Supervisors
Budget redistribution within budget categories is possible as an
acceptable way of adjusting allocation of resources to the actual
environment and evolution of priorities.
The redistribution across budget categories cannot take place
indiscriminately because they create different liabilities and have
different impacts on the University’s long-term use of its resources.
Redistribution across categories shall be adjusted and determined by
the Vice President for Financial Management under the supervision of
the COO. For such purpose, the Budget Section must confirm that the
aforementioned redistribution is compatible with the restrictions
attached to sources of funding.
27.5.10.6
Use of contingency funds
In case of emergency or unforeseeable events, the President for
Financial Management may, upon the instruction of the President and
under the supervision of the COO, decide to use the contingency funds
Page 14 of 16
ch27_budget-planning-execution-and-monitoring_en_20180401_cl

under his/her custody, specifying the purpose thereof. The use of
contingency funds must comply, in principle, with the rules applying to
the source of funds from which they are allocated (e.g. subsidies from
operations). However, in case of extreme urgency, the COO may decide
to use these funds with the explicit approval of the Vice President for
Financial Management.
The COO may delegate the responsibility for using specified amounts of
the contingency funds to Budget Supervisors when it is necessary.
The contingency funds should not be held until the end of the fiscal
year and must be allocated gradually to normal operational usage as
the probability of their necessity decreases.
27.5.10.7
Budget carry-over
Carry-over of subsidy budgets to next fiscal year is allowed
exceptionally and only in cases the following criteria are met.
(1) Carry-over is allowed in the laws and rules of the source of funding
(2) Approval of carry-over by the government or funding agency is
obtained. (In case prior approval is required.)
A budget carry-over includes the expenditures and the resources
corresponding to the expenditures being carried-over. It therefore
neutral from a budget balance perspective.
27.5.10.8
Reporting to other funding organizations
Reporting to funding agencies is usually done according to specific rules
and forms. Budget Supervisors need to be aware that missing deadline
or improper documentation may result in penalty such as
disqualification for applying other funding or order to return the funds.
27.11 Prohibition of self-approval
Budget execution in cases in which the requester and the approver are the
same person is not allowed under any circumstances in OIST. (Prohibition of
self-approval)
27.12

Contacts

27.12.1 Policy Owner
Vice President for Financial Management
27.12.2 Other Contacts
Budget Section
President Office
COO Office
Procurement Section
Page 15 of 16
ch27_budget-planning-execution-and-monitoring_en_20180401_cl

27.13

Definitions

Page 16 of 16
ch27_budget-planning-execution-and-monitoring_en_20180401_cl

OIST Graduate University
Policies, Rules & Procedures
Authority: Approved by the President

Chapter 28. Procurement
28.1 Policy
The Board of Governor delegates significant procurement authority to the OIST
Graduate University (“the University”) so that it may acquire goods, services and
construction needed to carry out its goals and missions. This authority is
ultimately delegated to designated procurement agents, Contracting Officers and
faculty who must base their purchases on sound business practice, best value,
accountability,

and

compliance

with

donor,

sponsor,

and

regulatory

requirements. Further, the University requires those who make purchases on its
behalf to comply with the rules and procedures set out in this Chapter.
28.2 General Considerations
In addition to applicable law and regulation, the University’s procurement
practices are driven by ethical considerations and sound business practices.
28.2.1 Ethical Conduct
Persons in charge of

units or sections and their supervisors procuring

goods or services on behalf of the University must comply with OIST
Graduate University Code of Conduct in the course of all transactions.
Examples of illegal and unethical practices include engaging in price
fixing arrangements; bid rigging acts; agreements with competitors to
divide or allocate markets or customers; falsifying accounting records;
intentional misrepresentations to the University’s auditors; bribery and
kickbacks.

Misconduct of this nature is subject to disciplinary action in

accordance with Chapter 23, Misconduct & Whistleblower Protection and
Chapter 38, Discipline.

1
ch28_procurement_en_20180201_ar

Caution: Personal gifts or gratuities from vendors must be
declined, and if received, returned to the vendors or suppliers.
This and other conflict of interest and commitment concerns are
addressed in detail in Chapter 22, Avoiding Conflicts of Interest
and Commitment.
28.2.2 Conflicts of Interest
The University expects its faculty and staff to avoid any real or potential
conflict of interest when procuring goods or services on its behalf. For
additional information, refer to our Code of Conduct and our Conflicts of
Interest & Commitment policy.
28.2.3 Unauthorized Purchases
Persons in charge of units or sections must not make unauthorized
purchases, that is, those that are not in compliance with any aspect of this
or other the University policy. Such purposes include improper bidding,
making commitments for payments without proper authorization, and
making false inspection records. Because unauthorized purchases
increase legal and financial risks for the University, persons in charge of
units and sections or their supervisors making such purchases may be
held personally liable and/or subject to disciplinary action.
28.2.4 Business Purpose
Persons in charge of units or sections and their supervisors must not
make purchases that are not for an approved business purpose (Examples
of items not for an approved business purpose: [link: ]) (See Appendix
28.A. Non exhaustive list of purchases approved for business purpose
[link: ].). Procurement of goods or services for personal use is strictly
prohibited, as is the use of University discounts or its tax-exempt status.
The point service, which accumulates points through purchase of
business purpose and enables to receive discount or item, is

2
ch28_procurement_en_20180201_ar

recommended to use for the business purpose transactions in the next
time or after. Procurement for the purposes of resale must be made in
accordance with the requirements of this Chapter. See also Chapter 21,
Use of University Resources.
28.2.5 Disclosure of Contract Information
According to Stipulation on Contract Management, the University
discloses the following information regarding past and future
procurements on its website.


Negotiated contracts of more than 5 million JPY: the University
discloses the contracts and the reasons for selecting that contractor.



Construction contracts: the University discloses fiscal year
construction forecasts, bidding and contract execution processes,
and similar relevant information.

28.3 Rules
The University must comply with the laws and regulations of Japan governing its
operation. Additionally, persons in charge of units and sections and their
supervisors making purchases on behalf of the University must adhere to the
specific practices set out in this Chapter concerning soliciting, purchasing, and
paying for goods, services and construction with University funds.
28.3.1 Procurement Agents
Vendor selection and approval must be managed by an authorized agent
of the University. The University’s procurement agents must identify the
best, most qualified and/or suitable vendor to meet the needs of the
University, while complying with all applicable laws and regulations.
Only the Procurement and Supplies section and the facility related
sections may purchase goods, services and construction. However, in
situations where the amount of purchase is less than 0.5 million JPY per
order, persons in charge of

units or sections

other than the

3
ch28_procurement_en_20180201_ar

Procurement and Supplies section and the sections under the supervision
of Vice President for Buildings & Facility Management (the facility
related sections) can purchase from vendors when they procure goods
and services. When units or sections procure goods, services and
construction, the prior subject to approval of Budget holder is necessary
regardless of the amount. For placing an order, only an official authorized
purchase order form by the University should be used.
28.3.1.1

Approval on budget holder’s behalf

When the amount of purchase is less than 0.5 million JPY, budget
holder may allow a certain individual to approve procurement of
goods and services on ERP system on his/her behalf. In this case, the
budget holder must specify the scope, reason, and time limit by
submitting【Application for approval on budget holder’s behalf
regarding the procurement of goods & services 】 [link:] to the
System Administrator of the ERP System. Although the said
individual may approve the procurement above on ERP system on
behalf of the budget holder, the authority and responsibility for the
procurement is not delegated to the individual but remains at the
budget holder. The individual who approves on budget holder’s
behalf must not approve the purchase requests which are made by
himself/herself (prohibition of self-approval).
28.3.2 Vendor Selection
In principle, selection of vendors by competitive bidding (tender) or other
competitive procedures is required. However, in situations where the
purchase does not exceed 0.5 million JPY, the units and sections may
proceed to vendor selection at their own discretion while maintaining
economic efficiency and fairness. In case that the purchase does not
exceed 5.0 million JPY, the Procurement and Supplies section and the
facility related sections may proceed using one of the following

4
ch28_procurement_en_20180201_ar

competitive procedures
 Estimation of price (0.5 million JPY less than 1.0 million
JPY): the University approved vendors.
 Estimation of price (1.0 million JPY less than 3.0 million
JPY): best value comparative analysis between more than
2 vendors or more.
 Estimation of price (3.0 million JPY less than 5.0 million
JPY): best value comparative analysis based on the official
quotations submitted by 2 vendors or more.
The University can conclude contracts more than 5.0 million JPY without
competitive bidding (tender) procedures subject to approval of the
Procurement Committee in the following cases:
 One vendor only will be able to provide goods, services or
construction, therefore making irrelevant competitive
procedures. This exception must be made by the
Procurement Committee on the basis of justification
including specification and terms and conditions of the
goods, services or construction. The Committee decision is
disclosed on the University website.
 Procurement in emergency situations
 Others stipulated in the Contract Management
Stipulations, Article 31
The Procurement and Supplies Section and the facility related sections
must obtain approval of the approver specified by the PRP26.9
Appendices Table and “Guidelines for Document based Approval
Process” with the justification for the vendor selection, terms and
conditions, and the other necessary information.
Making the intentional split order for adjusting the transaction amount,
for the purpose of avoiding best value comparative analysis and tender,
or of manipulating total amount to be less than 0.5 million JPY, is not
acceptable.

5
ch28_procurement_en_20180201_ar

28.3.2.1 Preparation of Specification document
The University prepares specification document that specifies the
contents and duties clearly, to communicate the contents of the
contract with vendor to ensure the fulfilment of the contract.
The University must obtain the estimation of price after providing
vendors with the specification document. However, when the
purchase does not exceed 1.5 million JPY and the University is able
to specify the contents of the contract clearly without specification
documents, the preparation of specification document may be
omitted.
The specification document must contain the constitution,
demanded performances, delivery date, delivery site, method of
acceptance and inspection, documents (deliverables), warranty, and
the other necessary terms and conditions for the transactions.
In cases of the purchase of research equipment which exceeds 50
million JPY or of Enterprise Systems, the specification documents
must be prepared in compliance with the Bidding and Committees
procedures.
28.3.3 Bidding Process
The University will engage in competitive bidding in a manner that
creates a fair, open, and competitive environment for qualified vendors,
and that secures the best value possible. Methods of competitive bidding
are tender, comprehensive evaluation bidding and other competitive
bidding.
Criterion for determination of successful bidders is the lowest price bid
or the most economically advantageous bid.
28.3.4 Relationships with Suppliers
The University will maintain the highest standards of business ethics and

6
ch28_procurement_en_20180201_ar

conduct when interacting with suppliers. The employees of the University
will build an appropriately competitive environment, considering local
and small businesses, social minorities and environmentally preferred
practices. Persons in charge of units or sections request Procurement and
Supplies Section for credit check

and approval through web portal

[link: ] when starting transactions with new vendor.
28.3.5 Authority for Purchases and Contracts
The Board of Governors has delegated transaction authority for
procurement to various individuals within the University. Only these
individuals are permitted to carry out such delegated transactions. These
individuals must follow the requirements of the policy governing
transaction authority in carrying out such delegated transactions.
Unless delegated (see below), the Procurement and Supplies section and
the facility related sections are authorized and responsible for:


Negotiating all procurement terms and conditions;



Committing funds on behalf of the University to procure
and pay for goods, services or construction, including
equipment; and



Approving the execution of all purchases of goods, services
and construction

28.3.5.1

Delegation

of

Purchasing

and

Contract

Authority
The Procurement and Supplies section may further delegate that
authority to certain individuals for particular transactions
related to their functional responsibilities.

Procurement

delegations must comply with the requirements of OIST
Graduate University PRP Chapter 2.6 and must be approved by
a Vice President at a level above the employee seeking to delegate

7
ch28_procurement_en_20180201_ar

procurement authority.
The delegation must contain the specifics of the delegation,
including the scope, reason, and time limit for the delegation.


The Procurement and Supplies section must review the
delegation annually to assess the need for continuation of
the agreement and whether any modifications or other
alignment is needed.



Failure of a person in charge of unit and section and their
supervisor to follow University policy may result in
withdrawal of the delegated authority.

28.3.6 Independent Contractors
An independent contractor is an individual or entity engaged to perform
services, mainly as a consultant. Such service providers including
independent contractors are not employees of the University and thus not
managed by University employees.
The University must use an “Independent Contractor Agreement (ICA)”
[link: ] when

receiving services from independent contractor. Before

services commence, the ICA contract must be signed by both the
independent contractor and the University’s representative or the Senior
Level Executives with the appropriate level of contract authority. The
language of the agreement cannot be changed without agreement by the
Procurement and Supplies section.
28.3.7 International Procurement
The University procures goods, services and construction from overseas
based on best value if the procurement costs including indirect costs such
as shipping charge, tariff, etc. are cheaper than domestic procurement
taking maintenance after the procurement into consideration. When the
University procures from new overseas vendors, it must screen

8
ch28_procurement_en_20180201_ar

qualifications for the vendors. The University does not authorize full
payment in advance to the vendors not having the required qualifications.
28.3.8 Payment Methods
The University uses bank transfers by invoice after delivery as its primary
payment method. However, if bank transfer is not possible, a corporate credit
card may be used for a transaction in accordance with PRP 26.3.7. The
University may use advance payment methods for vendors for
construction, international procurement, and other situations stipulated
in PRP 26.3.1.27. Such vendors must meet all screening qualifications.
28.3.9 Blanket Purchase Orders
If individual frequently needs specific supplies or services from the same
supplier, the Procurement and Supplies section may establish a “blanket”
purchase order. “Blanket” purchase orders are established for varying
periods within a fiscal year in principle, and allow the individual to order
directly from the supplier without obtaining quotations each time. This
category includes contract for unit price agreement, and basic contract
agreement for continuous transaction.
28.3.9.1 Multi-year contracts and multi-year valid vendor
selection.
The Procurement and Supplies section and the facility related
sections can conclude multi-year contracts according to its property
and purpose. However, it is stipulated separately about necessary
requisitions for multi-year contract[link:].
In addition, the Procurement and Supplies section and the facility
related sections can accomplish vendor selection by multi-year valid
conditions or procedures. At concluding of contract via such selection
method, the Procurement and Supplies section and the facility
related sections shall take appropriate actions by necessity like

9
ch28_procurement_en_20180201_ar

regularly review for succession of contract etc.
28.3.10 Receipt and Inspection of Deliveries
The Receiving & Inspection Center must confirm receipt of procured
goods and services at the time they are delivered to the University. If the
Receiving & Inspection Center cannot confirm receipt due to a lack of
relevant knowledge or expertise related to the delivered goods and
services, or confirming the receipt of delivery is difficult at the Receiving
& Inspection Center, the Procurement and Supplies section may delegate
the confirmation of receipt to staff having appropriate expertise.
The confirmation of receipt may be substituted by receipt of packing
invoice or photograph when procured goods are delivered to off-campus.
Procurement & Supplies section also confirms the performance of
specialized services such as development of databases, programs, digital
contents etc., by deliverables or service completion report.
Receiving & Inspection Center staff receives all the packages delivered to
Receiving & Inspection Center . To confirm the receipt of procured goods
and services, Receiving & Inspection Center staff may open the delivered
packages without permission of the recipient on the waybill.[link : DFA
site]
Persons in charge of each purchasing unit or section shall inspect the
performance of delivered goods and services, and record it eligibly. Staff
of Receipt & Inspection Center may witness the performance inspection.
Persons in charge of each purchasing unit or section shall keep records of
receipt and inspection on file, and submit the records as necessary.
28.3.11 Emergency Purchase
When an emergency situation occurs, an authorized procurement agent
may make a commitment to a vendor without a formal purchase order.

10
ch28_procurement_en_20180201_ar

Such transactions would include, for example, an unanticipated and
sudden life-threatening or catastrophic event.
Simple urgent matters and/or lack of time for required procurement
procedure are not considered as appropriate reasons in this article.
28.3.12 Record Retention
The Budget Section, the Accounting Section, the Procurement and
Supplies section and the facility related sections must maintain records
of procurement and disbursement transactions routed to their respective
Offices. See also Chapter 12, Document and Record Management.
28.3.13 Correction of order
Persons in charge of units or sections shall reissue an official purchase
order form when modification or correction on the content of original
order is needed.
If modification or correction is needed on the cases which purchasing
units, sections or individuals have made a purchase request to the
Procurement and Supplies Section or the facility related sections, the
requesters should notify the sections in charge of purchase order
immediately.
28.4 Responsibilities
All employees who are related in procurement have the following
responsibilities:


Understand and comply with rules related to procurement.



Select most appropriate method of procurement from the viewpoint of
economic efficiency and fairness.



Conduct proper procurement and purchase request.



Obtain approval specified by the rules prior to the procurement.



Inspect the deliverables and related documents with the Receiving & Inspection
Center on delivery of goods and completion of services.

11
ch28_procurement_en_20180201_ar

The budget holders have the following responsibilities:


Be responsible for appropriate execution of transaction and appropriate use
of University’s funds. Especially, check the contents of the transactions and
budget for the purchase requests from persons in charge of units or sections.



Approve the requests after checking if the requests are complying with the
rules for procurement. Take responsibility if he/she approves unauthorized
purchases and purchases not for an approved business purposes.

The Procurement and Supplies section and the facility related sections have the
following responsibilities:


Provide information and be a resource to the University on procurementrelated matters;



Negotiate procurement terms and conditions, and issue contracts with
external suppliers based upon price and best value;



Contractually commit the University to procure and pay for goods, service
or construction, as appropriate;



Approve the execution of all purchases, where authority has not been
delegated;



Establish procedures for documenting delegated procurement methods in
accordance with applicable regulations;



Maintain and communicate updated procedural documentation in the
University Financial Operating Procedures;



Maintain records of procurement transactions as required by law and by
University policy; and



Communicate procurement policy and procedure changes to stakeholders,
including persons in charge of units or sections, customers, and suppliers,
as needed.



Receiving & Inspection Center must confirm receipt of procured goods and
services, and delivery of orders.



The University collects a document from the suppliers who have certain
transaction amount or more pledging that they have no objection if the
12
ch28_procurement_en_20180201_ar

University imposes sanction including suspension of transactions when they
are involved in misconduct.
28.5 Procedures
28.5.1 Purchasing procedures
For details on the purchasing procedures, please see the University
Division of Financial Management

Website, the Operation Workflow

page (Purchase) [link: ] .
28.5.2 Bidding and Committees procedures
The followings are the procedures for bidding and related committees.
a. Contract Management Stipulations
b. Procurement Committee Stipulations
c. Detailed Stipulations for Competitive Bidding (Planning
Competition)
d. Detailed Stipulations on the Procurement of Large-scaled
Equipment)
e. Detailed Stipulations for Investigations of Lowest Bidders
f. Detailed Stipulations for Contract Review Committee
g. Contract Review Committee Operating Guideline
h. Establishment of the Competitive Bidding Participants
Qualifications Examination Committee
i. Establishment of the Fair Bidding Investigation Committee
j. Establishment of the Construction Consultant Selection
Committee
k. Establishment of the OGVM Examination Committee concerning
Facilities Construction and Maintenance Works
l. Establishment of the OGVM Examination Committee concerning
Procurement for Goods and Services
m. Handling of Contract Management in Cost-on Method
n. Qualified Bidder Identification Implementation Guideline
13
ch28_procurement_en_20180201_ar

o. Small Amount Qualified Vendor Identification Implementation
Guideline
p. Specification formulation of Enterprise Systems
q. Stipulations for Multi-year contracts and multi-year vendor
selection
r. Detailed Stipulations on Priority Review for Adoption of PPP/PFI
Methods [link:]
28.6 Forms
Independent Contractor Agreement (ICA)
28.7 Contacts
28.7.1 Policy Owner
Vice President for Financial Management
28.7.2 Other Contacts
Procurement and supplies section
28.8 Definitions

Agreement

See “contract” definition.

best value

This concept is to select the contractor who provides the
most valuable service to the buyer.
This is not only for acquisition of lowest price, but
includes philosophies of cost reduction by consideration
of

most

appropriate

conditions

/specifications,

economic improvement based on life-time cost and
maximization of services provided through the same
amount of price.
bid

A request for competitive quotation or proposal from a

14
ch28_procurement_en_20180201_ar

qualified vendor for the purpose of issuing a purchase
order and contract for the procurement of goods,
services and construction.
conflict of interest

A situation in which a member of the University
community has the opportunity to influence the
University's business, administrative, academic, or
other decisions in ways that could lead to personal gain
or advantage.

construction

Clearing, dredging, excavating, and grading of land and
other activity associated with buildings, structures, or
other types of real property

contract

A written, legally binding agreement between the
University and an external supplier.

corporate credit

A credit card issued and used according to the

card

stipulation of PRP 26.3.7.

emergency situation

The occurrence of an unanticipated and sudden
situation that is life-threatening, catastrophic in nature,
or involves pressing necessity for immediate repairs,
reconstruction, or maintenance in order to permit the
safe continuation of a necessary use or function, or to
protect the property or the life, health, or safety of any
person on the University business.

goods

Tangible property for sale, lease, or rental by the
University (also known as merchandise or commodity).

inappropriate split

An act of intentionally making multiple split orders, to

order

avoid required competitive procedure set by transaction
amount.

independent

A person or entity engaged to perform services mainly

contractor

as a consultant. Such service providers including
15
ch28_procurement_en_20180201_ar

independent

contractor

are

not

supervised

by

University employees.
inspection

To visually confirm quantities and visible defects
regarding delivered supplies or services, and to verify
performance whether delivered items provide the
expected features. May be used interchangeably with
“acceptance check.”

Memorandum of

A formal, written record containing the terms of a

Delegation

transaction

or

agreement

signed

between

the

Procurement and Supplies section and one or more
other individual(s), sections(s) or unit(s) of the
University.
person in charge

An administrative staff at the University who is
delegated significant procurement authority for the
acquisition of goods, services and construction from
external sources on behalf of the University.

price information

An official quotation, a reference quotation, an on-line
estimation and a price list clearly written which is issued
for the University.

procurement agent

An individual, a unit or a section which is part of a
procurement organization at the University and has
been given transaction authority by the head of the
procurement function to negotiate, authorize, and
execute contracts on behalf of the University.

purchase order

A legally binding order for purchase issued by the
University to the vendor.

service

An activity in which labor is the major factor and not
merely incidental to the production, acquisition, and/or
delivery of a good.
16
ch28_procurement_en_20180201_ar

spend

An act of using funds to purchase goods, services or
construction, or the funds spent by a person in charge, a
unit or a section through its procurement processes.

supplier

See “vendor” definition.

transaction

The authority to execute transactions or agreements

authority

with external parties that commit the University

undelivered

"Undelivered" is the status that the inspection of
ordered goods and services have not been completed by
due date.
Undelivered" status is also assigned following cases. –
-The delivery has not been completed by the budget
expiration date, including scenarios where

such as

contract extension was granted.
-The goods and serves were delivered, yet the inspection
could not be completed due to defects and/or missing
parts and compensation, substitution or restoration was
not provided despite a request from the University.

unit and section

A organizational level whose manager is delegated
significant procurement authority for the acquisition of
goods and services from external sources on the
University behalf. In this chapter this category includes
divisions and offices in certain instances.

vendor

An individual or organization that provides specified
and agreed upon goods, services and/or construction to
the University. May be used interchangeably with
“supplier.”

web-purchase

To purchase goods and services through vendor’s web
portal. May be used interchangeably with “on-line

17
ch28_procurement_en_20180201_ar

purchase”.
Delegation

The Board of Governors and the Procurement and
Supplies

section

delegate

the

authority

and

responsibility for procurement to certain individuals
Approval on budget

The budget holder allows certain individuals to approve

holder’s behalf

on ERP system on behalf of the budget holder. The
authority and responsibility for procurement still
remain at the budget holder.

Authorised

Contractors

which

are

registered

with

OIST

Contractors

procurement section and are given dedicated ongoing
access to OIST resources.
Physical access for these contractors must be requested
via the facilities division, these contractors will be issued
access cards as their work entails continuous and
ongoing access to OIST; this category includes facilities
contractors.
Virtual access for these vendors must be made via IT, for
security reasons this kind of continuous access by
contractors is only granted where absolutely required,
for example for 24 hour external support services of
systems such as the Finance and HR systems.

Registered

Contractors

which

are

registered

with

OIST

Contractors

procurement section, and are allowed to access to OIST
resources when required i.e. for providing supply and
maintenance services.
Physical access must be requested through the facilities
division, and entry made via the Bosai centre, temporary
access cards are issued upon arrival and to be returned
whenever leaving the facility.
Virtual access to OIST resources must be requested via
18
ch28_procurement_en_20180201_ar

IT, and access will be granted only for the time window
required.
Sales or

A vendor visiting OIST for the purpose of promoting

Presentation

products, or presenting materials. These vendors are not

Vendors

paid or compensated in any way. It is the responsibility
of the sponsor to ensure these vendors are escorted at all
times in laboratory areas.

Personnel from staff

Staff dispatched from an agency under an hourly-fee

agencies (Agency

contract.

Temporary Staff)
28.9 Appendix
Appendix 28.A

Non exhaustive list of purchases approved for business
purpose

19
ch28_procurement_en_20180201_ar

OIST Graduate University
Policies, Rules & Procedures
Authority: Approved by the President

Chapter 29. Travel, Meetings and Related Expenses
29.1 Policy
This Chapter provides basic policies and rules on travel and meeting expenses, and honorarium
for OIST officers and employees, and guest travelers. Travelers must understand all travel
related policies and rules and make business travel expenses reasonable and economical. Once
the travelers finish business travels, travelers must promptly make the settlement of travel
expenses in accordance with the travel expense settlement procedures.
Likewise, to invite guests to OIST, inviters must inform guest travelers of OIST’s policies and
rules on guest travels and their expenses. Inviters must also keep guest travel expenses
reasonable and economical and, once the travels are finished, promptly make the settlement of
guest travel expenses in accordance with the travel expense settlement procedures.
The University’s travel policy (and primary requirement) is that all business travel must be
approved before the traveler leaves for the trip and before any prepayments can be made.
University travelers are expected to spend University funds prudently and plan appropriately
so costs do not exceed budgetary limitations. Business travel expenses will be paid by the
University if they are reasonable, appropriately documented, properly authorized, and within
the guidelines of this policy. See Table [link: 26.9] for details on categories of travel expense
and per diem rates. The traveler should neither gain nor lose personal funds as a result of
University travel.
This Chapter applies to anyone who incurs travel expenses paid by the University regardless
of the source of funds. It aims at providing
•Compliance with Japanese regulations.
•Policies, Rules, Procedures, and Definitions that simplify travel arrangements and
enable the University to manage its planned annual travel budget within available
resources.
•Clear and consistent understanding of policies, rules and procedures for meetings and
travel.
Intentional or frequent disregard for the University's travel policy and procedures may be
considered grounds for disciplinary action, and/or for prosecution in the case of fraudulent
misrepresentation of travel expenses.

Page 1 of 29
ch29_travel –and-meetings_en_20180401_cl

29.2 General Considerations
Departments may impose stricter budgetary controls over travel, meeting and related
expenditures than those required by this policy. The University reserves the right to apply more
stringent requirements on individual travelers.

As a principle, Travel, meeting and related expenditures charged to a sponsored project, or
other funding than subsidies such as gifts or grants should follow the guidelines set forth by
this policy unless the funding organization, donor or grantor imposes greater restrictions or on
the opposite gives more discretion. Proper review of allowable expenses must be made by the
Grants and research Collaborations or the Fundraising Office. [link:].
The University has appointed a preferred travel agency (PTA) to help minimize risks (financial
loss, Duty of Care) and obtain good value for money spent. The PTAs [link: List of PTAs] is
the only agent recommended by the University and should always be consulted before booking
international air travel and other overseas services, except where the use of an alternative
supplier is substantially cheaper, low risk and outweighs the other benefits of using the PTAs.
The PTAs may incur fees depending on the services required and the method of booking, but
overall, should deliver competitive fares and value for money.
Travel to countries for which a travel advisory has been issued by the MOFA of Japan is not
advisable. You may access the list of current advisories at the MOFA website [link:
http://www.mofa.go.jp/index.html].
29.2.1 Travel by Key Staff
Key administrative staff members (those who report directly to the President) should
avoid traveling with colleagues, and under no circumstances will more than three key
staff be permitted to travel together.
29.2.2 Group Travel
The University discourages travel by groups of employees from the same department
or office on the same plane or on extended automobile trips as accidents may result in
injuries to several members of the group and may seriously impair the operation of an
essential University activity. Travelers are expected to use good judgment in this
regard.
29.2.3 Combined Personal & Business Travel
When personal travel is combined with business travel, the employee will be
reimbursed for only the business portion of the trip at the lowest available fare. In some
cases, the costs of a business trip can be significantly reduced by an extension of a day
or two. When such extensions are used for personal purposes, this must be indicated in
the travel request. Use of paid leave while on business travel must be clearly indicated
in travel request, which should be approved by Supervisor in advance. For more details
Page 2 of 29
ch29_travel –and-meetings_en_20180401_cl

please see “Paid Leave During Business Travel for OIST Employees” of Travel
Handbook [link:].
29.2.3.1 If a travel itinerary is created to accommodate personal travel, the
traveler must pay the incremental cost of personal business compared with the
same direct itinerary with only business purpose and document the costs
incurred, separating personal expenses from University business expenses.

29.2.4 Expenses Incurred by Accompanying Spouse or Personal Guest
Generally, the expenses of a spouse, family, or other accompanying the business
traveler are not reimbursable.
29.2.4.1 Exceptions may be granted with the approval of the President if one of
the following conditions are met:
• The spouse, family, or other accompanying the business traveler has
significant role in the proceedings; or
• The spouse, or other accompanying the business traveler is involved in fundraising activities.
29.2.4.2 This exception is only available if
• the Spouse or other accompanying guest is registered on the travel request,
• the business purpose for the spouse or other accompanying guest is stated,
and
• the accompanying person’s and business traveler's expenses are clearly
identified and demonstrated on the Authorization for Payment.
29.2.4.3 Exceptions stipulated in Business Travel Support Program for child rearing employees, students, and invited guests [link: https://oist-prodgroups.s3-ap-northeast-1.amazonaws.com/s3fspublic/imce/u100221/The%20Guideline%20of%20Business%20Travel%20Su
pport%20Program.pdf] may be granted with the approval of the Vice President
for Gender Equality and Human Resource Development for the program.
29.2.5 Travel by Non-University Employee
The University's Travel Policy shall be extended to cover external members of the
Board of Governors, Board of Counselors and their Committees when they are
attending scheduled meetings of these bodies or when they are otherwise engaged on
official Board business requiring travel from their usual residence or place of work. The
university will also pay the travel costs of other non-employees (job applicants,
lecturers, volunteers, and other visitors, students etc.) when approved by travel
approver(s) indicated in the table [link:]. Generally, non-employees traveling for the
university are required to comply with this policy.
Page 3 of 29
ch29_travel –and-meetings_en_20180401_cl

29.2.5.1 In case of an independent contractor, travel expenses should be part of
the overall fee reflected on the vendor’s invoice, which should indicate the cost
of travel
29.2.5.2 In case of guest lecturers at OIST workshops, please follow the
guidelines [link: ].
29.2.6 Recruitment
Units must authorize travel for prospective employees (and their families as authorized
by the President (Chapter 29.2.4)[link: 29.2.4]). The recruitment process ends once the
recruit accepts an offer.
29.2.7 Relocation
Reimbursement for relocation of newly recruited regular employees is authorized by
hiring section and Human Resources Management Section. University purchasing
policies require quotations from 2 moving companies. The University has negotiated
preferred supplier agreements with moving. Preferably at least one of these suppliers
and one other supplier should be included in the consultation.
Relocation expenses will be paid based on the actual incurred cost. The amount of
relocation allowance for the new hire and dependents is equivalent of 11 days of perdiem and lodging except for domestic relocation on Campus or Rental Housing. For
this case, 8 days of per-diem and lodging are paid. No relocation expenses and
allowance are paid for relocation within Okinawa’s main island.
Contact Human Resources Management Section about relocation rules.
29.2.8 Student Travel
To obtain more information, consult the Graduate School Handbook [link: 5].
29.2.9 Travel Insurance and Assistance
When purchasing international air ticket via PTAs on University business, travel
insurance will be automatically covered. However, individuals purchasing international
air tickets from a supplier other than PTAs are required to purchase his/her travel
insurance by the means designated by the University.
29.3

Rules
29.3.1 Allowable Business Travel Expenses
Business travel expenses allowable for payment by the University are ordinary and
necessary expenses of traveling away from employee's home for the purpose of
conducting business for the sole benefit of the University (official or business travel).
See Table [link: 26.9] for traveler categories, items of reimbursement, and amounts.
Page 4 of 29
ch29_travel –and-meetings_en_20180401_cl

Expenses deemed as personal by the University are not reimbursed.
Air/Hotel Packages should be avoided unless purchased through the University's PTAs.
Receipt requirements are found here (Chapter 29.3.13)[29.3.13.]
29.3.2 Air Transportation
Travelers should use the class of airline accommodations permitted in the
Table[Link;26.9] or lower.
29.3.2.1 EXCEPTIONS
29.3.2.1.1. First class tickets are not permissible for University
employees. See Travel Handbook [Link;] for the details. For other
travelers they may be authorized under exceptional and duly justified
circumstances with prior written approval from the President
29.3.2.1.2 Airfare Upgrades at the expense of the University (i.e.
resulting in a total cost superior to the cheapest airfare in the eligible
class for the direct customary route) is not permitted and will not be
reimbursed. Free upgrades or upgrades paid by the traveler must be
clearly documented as such in the Travel Expense Report.
29.3.2.1.3 Airfare costs in excess of the lowest available commercial
discount airfare or the defined standard (Table [Link:26.9]) airfare are
unallowable. EXCEPTIONS: The lower cost accommodations are not
required if they:
(a) require circuitous routing,
(b) require travel during unreasonable hours,
(c) excessively prolong travel or greatly increase the duration of the
flight,
(d) result in increased costs that would offset transportation savings,
or
(e) be inadequate for the medical needs of the traveler.
29.3.2.2 Purchase Method.
Direct billing to the University through travel agencies and airline companies is
available in order to reduce administrative cost, to minimize out-of-pocket
expenses for travelers, and to prevent fraudulent expense claims. This is
permitted only thorough the suppliers which are determined by the Financial
Management Division.
Direct billing of airfare to the University by PTAs is recommended. This is also
applied for all business travels including guest travels.
29.3.2.3 Insurance
Page 5 of 29
ch29_travel –and-meetings_en_20180401_cl

Trip insurance, cancellation insurance: the cost for purchasing this insurance
can be significant and should not be purchased on a regular basis for most
University travel. The cancellation insurance is not an allowable business travel
expense under this University’s travel policy. If the traveler believes that there
is a relatively high probability that the trip may be cancelled due to
circumstances beyond his/her control, it may be possible to obtain cancellation
insurance at an additional fee.
29.3.2.4 Private Plane or Air Charter
Private aircraft and chartered flights are actively discouraged. Private aircraft
or chartered flights may be justified by extenuating circumstances and require
adequate insurance coverage and the prior written approval of the President.
29.3.2.5 Other Air Travel Constraints
For international, purchase of fully Refundable Air Fare airline ticket should be
minimized. In most cases, it is less expensive to pay the change fee for a
rebooked ticket than to pay for a fully refundable ticket.
29.3.3 Surface Transportation
The most economical mode of transportation should be used to and from air, bus and rail
terminals. Public transportation and shuttle services should be favored. For domestic
travels, in principle, only single-round trip transportation fares between the airport and
the business destination will be provided even for a travel that includes overnight stay,
in order to simplify calculation for reimbursement. NOTE: Original receipts are required
for reimbursement of taxi, shuttle, bus, or other ground transportation for fares. If a fare
can be substantiated by other tools such as online trip organizer and bus company’s
website, no receipt is required.
Employees traveling to the same location should share ground transportation whenever
possible.
Use of rental car is permitted, only if the cost is less than other available modes of
transportation or if a valid business reason confirmed in advance by senior staff precludes
the use of a more economical mode of transportation.
Reporting Accidents
Accidents involving use of surface transportation during the course of University
business, and especially accidents involving rental, University, and personal vehicles
for University business, must be reported immediately to the proper authorities,
consistent with local/state laws. Supervisor or the University 24-hour emergency
service (+81 (0)98 966 8989 ) must be informed as soon as possible of any such
accident.
29.3.3.1 Rail, buses and commercial vessels
When traveling by rail, bus or boat, the travel fare applicable depends upon the
travelers’ situation and travel location. (Appendices & Table)[link: 26.9]
Page 6 of 29
ch29_travel –and-meetings_en_20180401_cl

29.3.3.2 Rental Cars
When usage of rental car is more economical and convenient than other
transportation, a traveler may rent a car.
(1) Travelers should use standard compact sized vehicle that meets their
needs.(see table) Special and luxury vehicles are prohibited unless
the business purpose justifies the need and written Supervisor’s
approval is received in advance of the transaction. Renting minivans
transporting more than 8 passengers is not allowed unless driven by
a professional driver.
29.3.3.2.1 Automobile Rental Insurance
Employees traveling on University business should purchase rental car
full coverage insurance.
29.3.3.2.2 Other Car Rental Guidelines
(1) Drivers are responsible for paying for parking violations, speeding
tickets, and any other violations incurred when renting a vehicle. These
will not be reimbursed by the University.
(2) When drivers rent a car for a period of time that includes both
business and personal use, the total cost of the car rental must be
apportioned between business days and personal use days and only
usage during the period of time the driver was conducting University
business will be reimbursed. The traveler must provide a clear
description of the personal and business use (distances and periods).
Damages occurring during the personal use period will be fully charged
to the traveler.
(3) Gasoline purchased in conjunction with the professional use of a
rental car will be reimbursed. If the reimbursement contains personal
use of gas, it will be reimbursed on prorata temporis basis.
29.3.3.3 Personal Vehicles
Authorization to use a personal vehicle for University business (and to be
reimbursed for that use) requires a determination that the cost of using a
personal car is either less than other available modes of transportation or that
there is a valid business reason precluding use of a more economical mode of
transportation.

Page 7 of 29
ch29_travel –and-meetings_en_20180401_cl

29.3.3.3.1 Travelers will be reimbursed for business use of their personal
vehicles at the University prevailing kilometric allowance (Appendices
& Table) [link: 26.9]

•
•
•
•
•

29.3.3.3.2 The automobile kilometric allowance assumes coverage of all
transportation and operating costs including auto insurance and
maintenance, gas, oil. Tolls and parking will be reimbursed in addition
to the allowance.
NOTE: Employees will not be reimbursed for any of the following,
even if these costs were incurred during business travel:
car repairs,
rental car costs during repair of personal car,
tickets, fines, or traffic violations,
damage to personal vehicle,
theft of personal vehicle or vehicle content.
(1) It is the responsibility of the owner of the vehicle being used for
business purposes to carry adequate insurance coverage (mandatory
insurance requirement) for their protection and the protection of any
passengers.
(2) When using a personal car for University business, an employee's
personal car insurance carrier is the primary insurance carrier.

29.3.3.4 Taxis
When a traveler travels in a place with limited access to public transportation,
he or she may use a taxi. In such a case, a receipt must be attached when
claiming reimbursement.
Use of car service with driver will be arranged only if there is a valid business
reasons such as cost safety, efficiency, lack of other mode of transportation by
group 1 & 2 (Appendices & Table) [link: 26.9)
29.3.3.5 University Vehicle
University Vehicle can be booked through University’s facility booking
system[link: ].
29.3.4 Hotel and Other Accommodations
29.3.4.1 Room rates reimbursement
Overnight hotel accommodation is reimbursed on the basis of daily lodging
allowance. However, in principle, lodging expenses of guest travelers should be
paid by direct billing or actual cost reimbursement based on an original receipt,
up to the amount of the fixed allowance. Alternate accommodations should be

Page 8 of 29
ch29_travel –and-meetings_en_20180401_cl

explored before requesting or accepting a higher rate than the daily lodging
allowance. Please see the table[link: 26.9] for details.
If traveler makes a business trip and shares accommodation with his/her spouse,
family member or partner who is an employee of the University, lodging
allowance is paid to either one person. If actual lodging fee of two persons
exceeds the lodging allowance for one person, the actual difference amount is
paid up to the amount of lodging allowance for the additional one person when
an original receipt is submitted. (See 29.4.1)
29.3.4.2 Guaranteed Reservations
Hotel reservations must always be guaranteed for late arrival. This procedure
protects the traveler regardless of the arrival time at the hotel. If the traveler will
not be using a hotel room that has been guaranteed, the room must be canceled
to avoid a penalty.
29.3.5 Registration fees for conferences, meetings, and trainings
Registration fees for conferences, meetings, and trainings are not considered as
a part of travel expenses are treated as an individual expense. If all or part of
such fees is considered as meal costs, such as reception expenses, the portion
will not be reimbursed or paid from the University.
29.3.6 Telephone and Internet Usage
The university expects you to use the most economical or efficient means of accessing
the Internet when you are traveling.
The University will not reimburse personal calls except in situations of emergency (to be
specified in the reimbursement claim).
29.3.7 Foreign Travel
Expenses incurred in foreign currencies are reimbursed in Japanese Yen (JPY) after
currency conversion (29.3.7.1). Receipts in foreign languages should be translated if the
type of expense is not clear otherwise.
29.3.7.1 Currency Conversion
All expenses should be recorded in JPY. The currency conversion rate
applicable is the monthly average rate of the calendar month prior to the date
shown on the invoice or its equivalent. NOTE: The monthly Exchange rate is
automatically registered in the ERP system. Otherwise please refer to the table
provided
on
the
Financial
Management
website
(https://groups.oist.jp/dfa/accounting-and-payment). In case an exchange rate is
not provided for the currency in which the expense occurred, please contact the
Travel Expense Team of Accounting Section.
Example:
Page 9 of 29
ch29_travel –and-meetings_en_20180401_cl

Date of travel

Month of exchange rate applicable
July 2013

August 5th 2013
to
August 27th 2013
October 20th 2013
to
November 8th 2013

September 2013 for expenses invoiced between October 20th and
October 31st. October 2013 for expenses between November 1st and
November 8th.

29.3.8 Per Diem and lodging allowance
Instead of substantiating actual meal, incidental expense (i.e. tips) and lodging expense
for travel, the traveler may be reimbursed on the basis of a per diem and lodging
allowance.
However, in principle, lodging expenses of guest travelers should be paid by direct billing
or actual cost reimbursement based on an original receipt, up to the amount of the fixed
allowance.
The University does not require prorating of per diem and lodging allowance on travel
days: Per Diem and lodging allowance are paid undivided on the basis of the location
and number of days.
Overnights flights on University business are included in the Per Diem calculation.
29.3.8.1 Adjustments to the Per Diem and lodging allowance
When a conference provides meal(s) or meals are covered by meeting expense,
half of per-diem is paid.
Stays Longer Than 30 Days
The lodging allowance is multiplied by 0.6.
The Per Diem is kept unchanged.
Note 1: When an individual's original estimated travel is for more than
30 days in one location, the reduced rate (0.6 x lodging allowance)
applies from the first day. When an individual in travel status at a
location is granted extension to a trip originally estimated at less than 30
days, the 30-days-or-less rate applies for the first 30 days and the morethan-30-days rate applies from the 31st day through the end of the trip.
The 60% policy is based on the assumption that a long term traveler can
reduce the lodging expenses by renting instead of paying on a day-byday basis.
Note2: if there are any difficulties regarding this payment (such as in a
case where the application of the provision of this paragraph is
unreasonable, etc), the Vice President for Financial Management shall
decide the appropriate amount on a case-by-case basis.
Page 10 of 29
ch29_travel –and-meetings_en_20180401_cl

29.3.8.2 Exception to the Per Diem Amount
If a supervisor provides written justification that compliance with the per-diem
and lodging allowance is impractical or not preferable for a particular situation,
and the Vice President for Financial Management approves, actual costs may
be reimbursed based on actual expense receipts even if the set amount exceeded.
 Such exceptions must be approved before travel.
29.3.8.3 Actual Expenses and Per Diem
Travelers cannot use both actual expense and per diem methods for meals or
hotel during the same trip. No exceptions.
29.3.8.3.1 Meal Related to Meetings. It is possible to take visitors out
for meals or to invite guests during a business trip with the prior
approval of the supervisor and the budget holder. The cost will be
reimbursed up to a maximum amount per head. (Appendices & Table)
[link: 26.9]
On such occasions, receipts for actual expenses may be submitted for
reimbursement and half of per-diem will be paid on that day.
29.3.8.3.2 The Vice President for Financial Management can authorize
higher amounts for special guests.
These approvals must be obtained in advance, otherwise the cost of
meeting meals will not be reimbursed. All guests must be listed on the
claim form and receipts must be attached to the form as proof of
payment.
29.3.8.4 The Per Diem is not paid by the University if the travel is outside
duty (business travel within the area of 80 km that does not require lodging.)
29.3.9 Meeting expenses
Meeting expenses consists of food and beverage expenses related to a meeting or
ceremony involving people outside of the University to promote University activities,
goals, and mission. The University will defray meeting expenses only when the
occasion is significant to the affairs of the University, and is not of the type that
individuals would normally undertake, other than in an official capacity.
NOTE: Meals provided at academic workshops or courses hosted by the
University[link:19.3.2.1] are not dealt with by this chapter. Meal expenses
associated with these activities should be requested to and authorized by the
Workshop Committee, as a part of the workshop budget.
29.3.9.1 Approved for Payment
All the meetings or ceremonies for which expenses may be reimbursed must
be justified as necessary for the purpose of achieving the goals of the
Page 11 of 29
ch29_travel –and-meetings_en_20180401_cl

University. In support of this justification, the agenda and the name of
participants must be made known through the OIST ERP system in advance.
The University reserves the right to refuse reimbursement if this information is
not given in advance.

29.3.9.2 Non-exceptional Meeting Expenses
29.3.9.2.1 Non-exceptional Meeting Expenses
For reimbursement of meeting expenses as non-exceptional meeting
expenses, all conditions below must be met.
1. Meetings and ceremonies eligible for OIST meeting expense requests
must be held in accordance with the University’s business, objectives and
missions.
2. Each meeting must have at least one external participant and one
internal participant in order for OIST to bear its costs.
3. Cost of alcoholic beverages is not considered as part of OIST meeting
expenses. (Please refer to PRP 29.3.9.3.1.)
4. Expenses for meetings must be kept to a minimum. The limit of
expenses per meeting is specified in Appendix C “Cost per Meeting” in this
chapter. Amounts exceeding this limit will be at the expense of the OIST
member.
5. Attendance of Faculty, a Senior Level Executive or equivalent from an
external institution, or candidates for OIST research / senior administrative
appointments is required.
6. Attendance of an OIST Senior Level Executive or Faculty is required.
7. Up to one meal a day, three meals per visit.
In case the above conditions cannot be met while the expenses are deemed
necessary to pursue the University’s objectives, the requesting division
(hosting division) shall obtain approval prior to the meeting in accordance
with Appendix D "Approver and Consultant for Meeting expenses" in this
chapter.
Meetings (including BOG and BOC) organized by the President’s Office are
exempt from the requirements 4 -7 above.
NOTE: When an external guest is a government public officer, or
when there could be a risk of conflict of interests or other ethical
consideration, confirm with the external guest that it is legitimate to
submit a request for meeting expense. Particular attention should be
given to the fact that full names of the external guests may be
disclosed by information disclosure request.

Page 12 of 29
ch29_travel –and-meetings_en_20180401_cl

29.3.9.2.2 Refreshments for Meetings
For the reimbursement for refreshments (tea and snack, not meal) for
meetings, approval of the Travel Expense Team is required in advance. The
upper limit is 500 yen per person.
Small bottles of water or tea, which are considered as consumable items,
may be served at a meeting involving people outside of the University
without such information.
29.3.9.2.3 Lunch Meetings on campus
In principle, meetings over lunch on campus should be held in a meeting
room.
Under the following exceptional circumstances, meeting expenses may be
provided for a meeting during lunch time, held in a public space such as
OIST café and restaurant. Such meetings must also meet the general
requirements defined in PRP29.3.9.2.
 It is necessary to discuss a specific issue during the lunch time,
due to time limitations of the guest’s stay. (Requires prior
approval of Vice President for Financial Management)
 Opinion exchange is required between a guest lecturer delivering
a general speech or a special speech as defined in the Table
Honorarium [Link: 26.9] and University employees. (Requires
prior approval of Vice President for Financial Management)
 Opinion exchange is required between a guest and the President.
29.3.9.3 Exceptional Meeting Expenses
29.3.9.3.1 Alcoholic beverages
Offering of alcoholic beverages shall be strictly limited to meetings
and ceremonies, without exception, involving outside guests and the
University Officers (CEO/President, Vice-CEO, members of the Board
of Governors, or Auditors) and linked to support for cooperation with
other institutions, to public relations activities in recognition with
business and scientific/ educational transactions and achievements, and
other similar activities approved by the President on an individual
basis.
29.3.9.3.2 Spouse and personal guest invitees
The expenses for spouse and personal guest invitees may be paid only
under exceptional circumstances justified and approved by the
President.
29.3.9.3.3 Other Exceptions to the General Rules

Page 13 of 29
ch29_travel –and-meetings_en_20180401_cl

There are certain types of activities for which exceptions may be
granted to enrich the academic life of the University and improve
administrative efficiency.
A typical example of these exceptional cases is refreshments provided
at the Colloquium Series of the University, with a purpose of creating
the atmosphere where intellectual exchange across the boundaries of
scientific disciplines is encouraged and promoted. For such cases, the
limitations of internal attendance are not applied and submission of the
list of participants is not required.
The requirements/conditions and procedures of such exceptional cases
are provided in the guidelines and developed and maintained by the
President. [link: Guidelines] Any meeting expenses which are not
permitted by the rules in this chapter or the guidelines mentioned
above, must not be reimbursed by the University.
29.3.10Honorarium
29.3.10.1 Advance request
In the event that an honorarium should be paid, it is necessary for the
administrative section or research unit leader to apply by submitting an
“Honorarium Request in Advance” through the ERP System and to receive
approval from the pertinent budget holder [link: 27.3.2] and the Travel Expense
Team of Accounting Section.
29.3.10.2 Amount of Honorarium
The honorarium amount may be determined by each budget holder [link: 27.3.2],
subject to the guidelines specified in the appended Table 26.9 [link: 26.9].
However, if the honorarium amount exceeds the maximum, or if the honorarium
category is “others”, prior approval of the Vice President for Financial
Management is required.
29.3.10.3 Creation of new Honorarium Category
New honorarium categories may be created with approval of the Vice President
for Financial Management. (See Form 29.6.4[link: 29.6.4]) When the payment
shall be made based on management guidelines of a delegated contractor, or the
equivalent of such guidelines, the requestor shall provide a copy of the part of
the guideline that describes the basis for determination of the amount.
29.3.10.4 Payment request
When applying for payment, the requestor shall provide the Travel Expense
Team of Accounting Section with an “Honorarium payment request” via the
ERP System, along with other necessary documents.
Page 14 of 29
ch29_travel –and-meetings_en_20180401_cl

29.3.10.5 Travel Expenses
Travel expenses can be paid in addition to an honorarium, if necessary.
However, in principle, per diem is considered to be included in honorarium, and
will not be paid.
29.3.10.6 Others
For matters not specified in this regulation, requestors should furnish a thorough
description of the problem to the Travel Expense Team of Accounting Section.

29.3.11Travel advances
Requests for advances should be held to a minimum and are only available to University
Staff.
Travel advances are provided in the following situations:
• For University employees and students who are not able to make the
advance payment anticipated for their travel
• When a travel expense bill is due before a trip is taken
• When the trip requires the use of travelers’ checks
Travel advances should be obtained in close proximity to the travel dates.
It must be documented by an estimated total cost of the trip. After
completing travel, the traveler must clear the travel advance account
within 30 days. Any advance that is not used for the trip must be returned
to the university immediately after travel. If a trip is cancelled, the unused
advance must be returned immediately. You may not clear the advance
with expenses for trips other than the trip identified with the Travel
Advance Form.
Failure to account for advances properly can or will result in the denial of
subsequent advances, disciplinary action, deduction of the
unreported amount from the traveler’s salary, reductions in
reimbursements for other travel expenses in the amount of the advance.
29.3.12Direct Payment of Travel Expenses
The University permits direct payment of travel expenses for group travel such as BOG
of BOC meetings, Workshops, etc.
University Corporate credit cards can be used to pay allowable travel expenses in
advance. Allowable business travel expenses paid for by departmental credit cards
must be supported by the submission of Expense Reimbursement and expenses paid
by corporate credit cards must be supported by copies of receipts.
Direct payment of Travel Expenses must be authorized PRIOR to the payment is
made.

Page 15 of 29
ch29_travel –and-meetings_en_20180401_cl

29.3.13 Receipt Requirements
In principle, original receipt or paid bill is required. The receipt must show the amount,
date, place and essential character of the expense, and indicate that payment was made
in full. Photocopies are not acceptable. Duplicate may be provided in case of loss of the
original with explanation from the traveler.
29.3.13.1 Air Fare Receipt Requirements
Employees using PTAs do not need to provide proof of purchase of the airline
ticket.
Booking confirmation without breakdown of charges and proof of payment are
not acceptable for reimbursement.
Acceptable proof of purchase of an airline ticket includes either the original
airline passenger receipt (typically the last coupon of the airline ticket) or eticket receipt. It must provide the following information:
Traveler's Name
Name of Air Carrier
Flight Number
Dates of Travel
Destination(s) or Legs of Trip
Fare/Class of Travel
Total Cost of Ticket
Required documents for airfare reimbursement are as follows:
• Itinerary
• Receipt
• Boarding pass or equivalent proof of travel
• Proof of Payment (if not documented on the itinerary/receipt).
Boarding passes must be submitted when a travel agent other than
PTAs is used to book flights. A copy of boarding passes may be valid
with the statement saying “I hereby claim the reimbursement of flights
and I will NOT double claim this payment to other institutions”.
STOP-OVERS: Generally the University will only reimburse the cost of the
airfare without a stop-over. To be a reimbursable travel expense, the traveler
must provide passenger receipt indicating a stop-over during travel to the
destination city and the traveler must explain the University related business
reason for the stop-over.
If there is no business purpose of the University for a stop-over, prior approval
by the traveling employee’s supervisor is required for this stop-over.
At the time ticket with stop-over is purchased, a print out of the airfare without
the stopover must also be printed and must accompany the request for
reimbursement. The University will reimburse the least expensive airfare.
29.3.13.2 Car Rental fees may be reimbursed upon presentation of an original
receipt.
Page 16 of 29
ch29_travel –and-meetings_en_20180401_cl

The acceptable car rental receipt is an itemized receipt provided by a place that
is in the business of renting vehicles.
29.3.13.3 Receipts for Purchases:
Additional charges for books, publications, CDs, tapes, etc. from conferences
or workshops are reimbursable with an original receipt. In such a case,
“expense reimbursement” must be submitted along with other expenses that
might have occurred in the month.
29.3.13.4 Parking Receipts:
Parking charges in garage or hotel are a reimbursable expense if supported by a
receipt. For overnight parking charge, the parking expense must be separate
from the lodging amount.
29.3.13.5 Missing Receipts:
The requirements listed below must be followed if the receipt for an expense is
lost or unobtainable:
• In case of loss of a receipt, the traveler must contact the provider of the
services. Most hotels, airlines, and car rental agencies will provide a
copy of the receipt.
• If a receipt or duplicate cannot be obtained, the traveler must submit an
itemized list indicating what the expenses were with a combination of
credit card statement, copy of bankcard statement plus other
documentation that might be necessary to justify the expense to an
external audit or to the tax authorities.
• When submitting a duplicate copy of a receipt or alternate
documentation (as with all expenses), the traveler must write and sign
this statement for each missing receipt:
“I HEREBY CERTIFY that this expense is true and that I have incurred
the described expense in the discharge of my official duties for the
University and have not been reimbursed and have not filed nor will I
file for reimbursement from any other source for said expense.”
29.4

Responsibilities

Page 17 of 29
ch29_travel –and-meetings_en_20180401_cl

29.4.1
Traveler
It is the responsibility of the traveler to provide an accurate and truthful representation
of allowable expenses to be paid by the University. Proper receipts and documentation,
including allocations between personal and business activities (if applicable) must be
clearly identified on the request. Personal expenses are not reimbursable. In the case
of overpayment or payment of personal expense non eligible as business expense is
found (miscalculation, advance payment by the University etc.), traveler must return
the amount immediately to the University upon notification.
After the trip the traveler must submit a Travel Expense Settlement and supporting
receipts to Travel Expense Team of Accounting Section. Allowable travel expenses
must be properly substantiated and submitted within certain time limitations. Travel
reimbursement request and accompanying documents should be supplied within 20
business days after the trip. Reimbursement claims will not be given priority beyond
that date.
Processing takes about 10 business days.
Loss of Tickets and Other Transport Documents.
All transportation tickets should be guarded as carefully as cash. In cases where paper
tickets are lost, the travel agency should be notified immediately so that alternative
arrangements can be made.
Traveler should state purpose of business specifically in travel request form and attach
the evidence of the purpose (date, place, program etc. of academic conference, meeting,
discussion, seminar, event etc.) In case of meeting, discussion or joint research, please
state name, date and time to meet.
If traveler shares accommodation with his/her traveler’s spouse, family member or
partner who is an employee of the University, both of the traveler must declare it in
their travel request form accordingly.
If traveler claims per diem for weekends and national holidays, traveler needs to state
concrete content of work in travel reimbursement form.
29.4.2 Certified Approver(s)
When reviewing the travel request, the certified approver(s) must verify the
following based on travel request form and attached evidence (which shows
dates and contents of academic conference, workshop, symposium, seminar,
summer school etc, and clear specification of name, date and time for meeting
with faculty or researcher of university or institution.).
 The allowability and reasonableness of the travel
 The availability of funds for the trip
 The trip falls within the intent of the funds being used
 University Travel Policy is followed

Page 18 of 29
ch29_travel –and-meetings_en_20180401_cl



The necessity of the travel if traveler travels to the same area and the same
period with his/her spouse, family member or partner who is an employee
of the University.
When authorizing Travel Expense Settlement, it is the responsibility of the
approver(s) (signatory) to
 review the expenses,
 ensure that the information contained on the report is properly documented
and supported by attached receipts, in compliance with University policies,
and
 ensure that the expenses are for University business purposes.
 ensure that the correct codes (budgetary unit (BU), travel number
etc.) are used
 confirm concrete content of work for payment of per diem for weekends
and national holidays.
 In the case of CEO/President and Vice CEO, mutual checking should be
made
(only for requests)
29.5 Procedures
29.5.1 Procedure for Travel request, travel approval and advance payment
ERP System
29.5.1.1 Travel request and approval
Travel request and approval is electronic and managed in OIST ERP system.
See ERP manual/travel
29.5.1.2 Travel advances
Travel Advance is electronic and managed in OIST ERP system. See ERP
manual/travel
29.5.1.3 Direct Payment of Travel Expenses
Direct payment of Travel expense is electronic and manages in OIST ERP
system. See ERP manual/travel
29.5.2 Procedures for travel expense reimbursement, per-diem and lodging
allowance
Travel expense reimbursement, per-diem and lodging allowance are electronic and
managed in OIST ERP system. See ERP manual/travel
Procedures for “outside duty” reimbursement are electronic and managed in OIST ERP
system. See ERP manual/expense reimbursement

Page 19 of 29
ch29_travel –and-meetings_en_20180401_cl

29.5.3 Request for Meeting Expense Reimbursement
Procedures for Meeting Expense Reimbursement are electronic and managed in OIST
ERP system. See ERP manual/Meeting Expense
NOTE: When requesting an approval for the exceptional meeting expenses [link:
29.3.9.3] in advance, notify explicitly so and provide a sufficient justification that the
requested expenses meet the standard set out by the rules in this chapter, in OIST ERP
system. In addition to the normal approval process, an approval by the President is
required.
29.5.4 Table of Amounts for Travel Expense Reimbursement
(appendix &table) [link: 26.9]
29.6

Forms
29.6.1 Travel request and reimbursement form
Included in OIST ERP system.
29.6.2 Missing receipt
Missing receipt [link;
https://groups.oist.jp/sites/default/files/imce/u302/Missing%20Receipt%20For
m_0.pdf]
29.6.3 A new traveler registration
A new traveler registration [link; http://finance.oist.jp/en/dl_index.html]
29.6.4 Application for Creation of a New Honorarium Category [link: ]

29.7

Contacts
29.7.1 Policy Owner
Vice President for Financial Management
29.7.2 Other Contacts
Travel Expense Team of Accounting Section

29.8 Definitions
Accountable Plan

A plan under which an employer
reimburses an employee for expenses and
is not required to report the reimbursement
as taxable income to the employee. The
employee must document business
purpose, substantiate expenses, and return
Page 20 of 29
ch29_travel –and-meetings_en_20180401_cl

any amount in excess of substantiated
expenses to the employer.
Allowable expense

A necessary, reasonable, and appropriate
expense incurred for the primary benefit of
University business
and therefore
permitted to be reimbursed or directly
charged based on the permission of the
University or by the terms of federally or
privately sponsored agreements.

Appropriate Business Expense

An ordinary and reasonable charge for
goods or services that fosters or supports
the ongoing missions of the university.

Away from Home

For purposes of business expenses, “home”
is defined as the person’s regular place of
business, not his/her personal residence.
Travel expenses qualify as business
expenses only if the traveler is away from
home at a temporary work site.

Business travel

Travel for the purpose of conducting
business for the sole benefit of the
University.

Collision Damage Waiver/Liability A type of insurance that provides
Damage Waiver (CDW/LDW)
protection for any damage that may occur
to the vehicle you have rented. If renting a
vehicle, make sure you have this coverage.
Daily Standard Allowance (DSA)

See Per Diem

Direct Deposit

A payment method in which the University
directly deposits a payment into an
employee’s bank account. This method is
available for travel payments only if the
individual is an employee of the University
and has elected direct deposit for his or her
payroll check.

Domestic Travel

Travel within Japan

Page 21 of 29
ch29_travel –and-meetings_en_20180401_cl

Employee

Extended Travel

Employee is defined as someone who has
been directly hired by the University. They
can be either permanent or on fixed-term
contracts. Part-time employees who have
been hired directly by the University are
also considered employees.
Travel that exceeds 30 consecutive days.

Foreign National

An individual who is not a citizen of Japan

Faculty

Defined in Chapter 30.2.2.1.2.

Foreign Travel

Travel outside Japan or travel from and to
Japan

Honorarium

Payment to an individual in return for
professional counsel, a seminar or guest
lecture, service on an OIST committee etc,
at the request of the University

Incidentals Expenses

Minor expenses included in the per diem
rate for "meals and incidentals" (M & I).

Key administrative staff

Staff that report directly to the President

Lodging Allowance

Allowance for accommodation including
breakfast

Meetings

Meetings or Ceremonies to promote
University activities, goals, and mission.

Miscellaneous Expenses

Expenses for ground transportation (e.g.,
taxis, airport shuttle services, public
transportation) and other various nonpersonal
expenses.
Miscellaneous
expenses include tips, mailing expenses,
etc.

Moving Expenses

Travel expenses associated with an
employee's move to a new regular place of
business.

Page 22 of 29
ch29_travel –and-meetings_en_20180401_cl

Official Travel

Travel on approved university business
between “home” (i.e., regular place of
business) and another destination. Travel
between one’s personal residence and
one’s regular place of business is
commuting, not official travel.

Ordinary, Necessary, and Reasonable An expense is ordinary if it is normal and
Expense
customary. An expense is necessary if it is
appropriate and helpful to the business. An
expense is reasonable if a prudent person
would incur the expense in similar
circumstances.
Original receipt

The original merchant receipt or invoice
issued by the supplier or service provider to
document and substantiate the business
transaction. When the original receipt is not
available or does not contain adequate
information, a cancelled check, credit card
receipt, supplier statement, or a paid notice
will be accepted.

Outside Duty

Business travel within the area of 80 km
that does not require lodging

Participating/preferred Travel Agencies Travel agencies at which you will receive
<PTA>
the University’s discounts or superior
service for travel-related services, e.g.,
airfare, hotels, car rentals.
Per diem

Standard allowance for meals and
miscellany expenses for travel with at least
one of overnight stays (same as Daily
standard allowance - DSA).

Personal Expense

An expense for personal items such as
clothing, luggage, toiletries, newspapers,
magazines, movies, or other entertainment.

Proof of Payment

Documentation that reflects date, amount,
and that a payment was made (cash register
receipt, credit card receipt, a bank or credit
Page 23 of 29
ch29_travel –and-meetings_en_20180401_cl

card statement, a copy of a check, or a
cancelled check).
Receipt

A
written
acknowledgement
that
something has been received; some
receipts do not include key information
required by accountable plan rules such as
date, amount, description of good or
service, etc.

Senior Level Executive

Defined in Chapter 30.2.2.1.1.

Senior staff

CEO/President, Vice CEO, Executive Vice
President, Provost, COO, Dean, Vice
President, Faculty, Auditor

Signature Authority

The authority to make a payment from a
unit operating account.

Sponsored Project

A signed award (grant, contract, or
cooperative agreement) under which the
university agrees to perform a certain scope
of work for an external sponsor.

Sponsoring Agency

A governmental or private organization
that provides funding for a sponsored
project.

Substantiation

Written documentation to support an
incurred business expense that includes the
original receipt, documentation of business
purpose, time and place, names of persons
in attendance, and appropriate expense
report or voucher for the incurred cost as
evidence that the expenses were incurred or
paid.

Sufficient Documentary Evidence

Information and documentation that, when
taken as a whole, substantiates the expense
and business purpose under the
accountable plan rules. Sufficient
documentation should include who, what,
when, where, why, and how much.
Page 24 of 29
ch29_travel –and-meetings_en_20180401_cl

Supervisor

Supervisor is the individual who evaluates
the employee's performance, recommends
salary adjustments, and is the hiring
authority for the position.

Temporary Work Site

A work location away from an individual’s
regular work site. Travel expenses qualify
as business expenses only if the traveler is
“away from home” at a temporary work
site. An assignment that is expected to last
more than 12 months is classified as
indefinite, not temporary.

Transaction Authority

The authority to commit the university to
receive or expend resources.

Travel Advance

Payments made to or on behalf of a traveler
prior to travel, and recorded in a receivable
account in the university's accounting
system.

Travel Expenses

For tax purposes, the ordinary, necessary,
and reasonable expenses of traveling away
from home to a temporary work site.

Page 25 of 29
ch29_travel –and-meetings_en_20180401_cl

Appendix A Reimbursable Expenses
General Expenses
(All Travel)
Expense Must be Required for University Business Trip
Transportation , lodging and meal(1)
Baggage charges
a. Transportation charges for authorized excess baggage when carrying equipment
necessary to complete official business
b. Necessary charges for storage when such are a result from official business
c. Charges for checking baggage
d. Charges or tips at transportation terminals for handling property of the University
and/or tips for services such as taxi, shuttle or courtesy transportation drivers.
Services of guides, interpreters, or drivers
Services of typists, data processors, or stenographers
Use of computers, printers, fax machines, and scanners when necessary to complete
official business mission
Fees for conference/meeting rooms and equipment when necessary to complete
official business mission
Official telephone calls/service, such as faxes, telegrams, Internet etc.
Lodging taxes
Laundry, cleaning, and pressing of clothing (To qualify for this expense, the traveler
must incur a minimum of 4 consecutive nights on official University business.)
Energy surcharge and lodging fees when such fees are not optional. Example: Safe
Emergency purchases of materials or services (i.e., film, batteries, photocopying,
etc.) when necessary to complete official business mission.
Sales tax
Special Expenses
(Specific to Foreign Travel)
Expense Must be Required for University Business Trip
Passport and/or visa fees
Foreign country exit fees
Costs of photographs for passports and visas
Costs of birth, health, and identity certificates…..TBD
Charges for inoculations necessary for foreign travel
(1) when not covered by per diem and lodging allowance
Other Fees
(1) Many travel agencies charge ticket processing fees in addition to the actual cost
of travel arrangements. Processing fees will be reimbursed by the University.

Page 26 of 29
ch29_travel –and-meetings_en_20180401_cl

(2) Many airlines, particularly low cost airlines, charge fees to check luggage, select
an aisle/window seat, early check-in, etc. If the traveler deems these services
necessary and has the budget to support the fees, these fees will be reimbursed by the
University.
(3) Excess Baggage
• Employees will be reimbursed for excess baggage charges in the following
circumstances:
o When traveling with heavy or bulk materials or equipment necessary for
business
o When traveling for more than fourteen days.
o Documentation must be included with the Travel Expense Report
explaining the nature of the excess baggage charge.

Page 27 of 29
ch29_travel –and-meetings_en_20180401_cl

Appendix B Non-Reimbursable Expenses
The following miscellaneous expenses will not be reimbursed.
• airline/car rental upgrades
• babysitting or childcare costs
• car repairs/routine maintenance or locksmith charges
• clothing, luggage, briefcases
• credit card delinquency fees/finance charges/annual fees
• duplicate insurance on rental vehicles (CDW-See Rental Car Insurance)
• expenses for travel companions or family [link 29.2.4]
• expenses incurred during personal time not directly related with the business purpose.
• frequent-flyer miles
• health club facilities, saunas, massages
• helicopter services for airport transfers
• kennel fees and pet care for pets while on travel status
• loss/theft of cash
• loss/theft of personal property (lost baggage, etc.)
• magazines, books, newspapers, or movies
• non-compulsory health insurance coverage (annual fee)
• optional travel or baggage insurance
• parking or traffic violation tickets
• personal accident or property insurance
• personal entertainment/grooming/gifts/souvenirs
Caution: This list of non-reimbursable expenses is intended to be representative, not
comprehensive.
Unallowable Air Travel Purchases/Expenses
(1) Airline Frequent Flyer Programs
(a) The University will not reimburse travelers for tickets purchased with
frequent flyer miles.
(b) Frequent flyer memberships should not influence travelers to select a flight
that is not the lowest priced flight available.
(c) Frequent flyer miles earned by any traveler during University business travel
may be retained by the traveler for business use.
Employees are permitted to use personal airline miles, "points," or other for
upgrades; however, the University will not reimburse employees for the cash
value of these upgrades
(2) Airport/Airline Club Memberships
(a) Dues for membership in any airport/airline club are not reimbursable.

Page 28 of 29
ch29_travel –and-meetings_en_20180401_cl

Appendix C Cost per Meeting
Attendee
Costs for Visitor （per person）
One participant

Breakfast

Lunch

Dinner

2,000 JPY

2,500 JPY

6,000 JPY

2,000 JPY

2,500 JPY

6,000 JPY

4,000 JPY

5,000 JPY

12,000 JPY

Maximum Costs for
OIST members

Two or more
participants

Appendix D Approver and Consultant for Meeting expense
Requester

Approver

Consultant

Financial Management Division

COO

n/a

Research Unit / RSD

VPF

DOR

in other cases

VPF

n/a

Page 29 of 29
ch29_travel –and-meetings_en_20180401_cl

University Graduate University
Policies, Rules & Procedures
Authority:
 Approved by the President
 Labor Standard Act
 Labor Contract Act
 Act on Securing, Etc. of Equal Opportunity and Treatment between Men and Women
in Employment
 Act on the Welfare of Workers Who Take Care of Children or Other Family
Members Including Child Care and Family Care Leave
 Act for Securing the Proper Operation of Worker Dispatching Undertakings and
Improved Working Conditions for Dispatched Workers
 Act on Improvement, etc. of Employment Management for Part-Time Workers
 Act for Employment Promotion etc. of Persons with disabilities
 Act on Employment Security, etc. of the Elderly, etc.
 Act on Special Measures Concerning the Improvement of Establishing Working
Hours, etc.
 Act on Securing the Payment of Wages
 Minimum Wages Act
 Act on the Collection, etc. of Insurance Premiums of Labor Insurance
 Industrial Accident Compensation Insurance Act
 Employment Insurance Act
 National Pension Act
 Health Insurance Act
 Long-Term Care Insurance Act
 Income Tax Act
 Local Tax Act
 Whistleblower Protection Act
 Industrial Safety and Health Act
 School Education Act
 Private School Act

Chapter 30. Human Resources
30.1 Policy
All OIST Graduate University employees, regardless of Type of Job or Job Class, are
responsible for protecting and enhancing the wellbeing of the University community. The
University accomplishes this by setting standards that guide how we conduct ourselves as
employees and members of the University community.
Officers, supervisors and managers are responsible for recruiting and retaining high caliber
employees to conduct the University’s business competently, efficiently and effectively.
1
ch30_human-resources_en_20180401_cl

Human Resources (HR) matters must be handled consistently and equitably throughout the
University.
The University complies with the Labor Standard Act (Act No. 49 of 1947) and other
Japanese laws and regulations. HR matters are described in the Rules of Employment
[Link:], Rules of Employment for Part-time Employees [Link:], Compensation Rules for
Fixed-Term Employees [link:], and Compensation Rules for Permanent Employees
[link:] (hereinafter referred to as “the Rules of Employment etc.”) HR matters not
described in “the Rules of Employment etc.”, are governed by Japanese laws and
regulations. This Chapter and the related following chapters (Chapter 31-41) are
complemented by “the Rules of Employment etc.” Unless stated otherwise, Chapters
from 30 to 41, Japanese laws and regulations, “the Rules of Employment etc.” and HR
rules and procedures decided separately by the Vice President for Gender Equality and
Human Resource Development apply to all types of Job and Job Classes of employees,
academic and no-academic, regardless of funding source.
30.2 General Considerations
30.2.1 Equal Opportunity and Diversity
The University is committed to provide equal opportunities in all aspects of
employment, for all persons, regardless of race, color, religion, national origin,
physical or mental disability, medical condition, marital status, gender, sexual
orientation, or age. (Chapter 1.3)[Link :]
The University actively promotes diversity, (including gender diversity) at the
workplace, and will, whenever possible, actively recruit under-represented
populations. The University will hire, transfer, and promote based on the
qualifications of the individual to ensure equal consideration and fair treatment of
all.
Under the supervision of the Vice President for Gender Equality and Human
Resource Development, the Diversity and Welfare Section is responsible for
overseeing the implementation of this equal opportunity policy and monitoring
practices and procedures to ensure compliance with related laws and regulations as
well as this policy.
30.2.2 Employee Categories
The University establishes categories of employee classification based on various
characteristics and elements of each person’s employment. This classification is not
to create barriers among employees, but to provide appropriate and fair treatment
based on the nature of their work, individual employment terms, and work
schedules. It also helps determine employee and management responsibilities and
employee eligibility for employee benefits.
2
ch30_human-resources_en_20180401_cl

30.2.2.1 Type of Job and Job Class
30.2.2.1.1 Senior Level Executive
Executive Vice President, Provost, Chief Operating Officer, Deans
(including Dean of the Faculty Affairs and Dean of the Graduate
School), Vice Presidents, General Counsel, and other positions
specified by the CEO/President.
30.2.2.1.2 Faculty
Professors, Associate Professors, Assistant Professors, Adjunct
Professors, Visiting Professors, and Distinguished Professors.
30.2.2.1.3 Researchers
Group Leaders, Research Specialists, Science and Technology
Associates, Staff Scientists, Postdoctoral Scholars. Definitions for
Researchers are described in “Guidelines for Title and Job Class”
[link: ].
30.2.2.1.4 Technicians
Research Unit Technicians. Definitions for Technicians are
described in “Guidelines for Title and Job Class”[Link: ].
30.2.2.1.5 Research Support Employees
Research Support Leaders, Research Support Specialists, and
Research Support Technicians. Definitions for Research Support
Employees are described in “Guidelines for Title and Job Class”
[link: ].
30.2.2.1.6 Administrative Employees
Associate Vice Presidents (Assistant Deans), Senior Managers,
Managers, Assistant Managers, Specialists, Administrative Staffs,
Research Unit Administrators, Information Technology Leaders,
Information Technology Engineers, Laboratory Assistants,
Research Assistants, Research Unit Assistants and Administrative
Staff Assistants. Definitions for Administrative Employees are
described in“Guidelines for Title and Job Class” [link: ].
30.2.2.1.7 Constituent (External) Staff
External Administrative Staff and Agency Temp Staff. Definitions
3
ch30_human-resources_en_20180401_cl

for Constituent (External) Staff are described in “Guidelines for
Title and Job Class” [link: ].
30.2.2.2 Type of Employment
30.2.2.2.1 Permanent
Details are described in Article 3.1.a, Rules of Employment.
30.2.2.2.2 Fixed-Term
Details are described in Article 3.1.b, Rules of Employment.
30.2.2.2.3 Part-Time
Details are described in Article 3.1.a, Rules of Employment for Parttime Employees.
30.2.2.2.4 Non-Fixed Term
Details are described in Article 3.1.d, Rules of Employment and
Detailed Stipulations for Non-Fixed Term Employment Agreement.
30.2.2.2.5 Non-Fixed Term part-time
Details are described in Article 3.1.b, Rules of Employment for Parttime Employees and Detailed Stipulations for Non-Fixed Term
Employment Agreement.
30.2.2.3 Managerial Employees and Discretionary Employees
30.2.2.3.1 Managerial Positions
Details are described in Article 28, Rules of Employment and 4.11,
Rules of Employment for Part-time Employees. A
30.2.2.3.2 Discretionary Employee
Details are described in Article 31, Rules of Employment and 4.12,
Rules of Employment for Part-time Employees.
30.2.3 Corporate Officers
The HR policies do not apply to the Officers of the OIST School Corporation,
unless stated otherwise. The Officers are the following positions prescribed by
Article 35 of the Private School Act (Act No. 270 of 1949); the Governors,
including the Chief Executive Officer (CEO)/President of the University and the
Vice CEO of the University, and the Auditors.
4
ch30_human-resources_en_20180401_cl

30.3 Rules
30.3.1 Professional Conduct
Details are described in Chapter 4, Rules of Employment and Article 3, Rules of
Employment for Part-Time Employees.
30.3.2 HR Policies, Rules and Procedures
HR matters are described in “the Rules of Employment etc.”, and following
Chapters complement the Rules of Employment:
Chapter 31. Hiring Process [Link: 31]
Chapter 32. Work Schedules and Breaks [Link: 32]
Chapter 33. Leave [Link: 33]
Chapter 34. Compensation [Link: 34]
Chapter 35. Benefits [Link: 35]
Chapter 36. Performance Evaluation [Link: 36]
Chapter 37. Leaving the University [Link: 37]
Chapter 38. Discipline [Link: 38]
Chapter 39. Resolving Complaints & Disputes [Link: 39]
Chapter 40. Staff Development and Awards [Link: 40]
Chapter 41. Workplace and Safety [Link: 41]
30.3.3 Employee Representative
The Employee Representative, is an employee who is representing at least half of
all University employees, and is selected by the employees through an election or
other democratic process. The Employment Representative may not be selected
from amongst employees in the managerial positions specified in 30.2.2.3.1.
[Link: 30.2.2]
30.4 Responsibilities
30.4.1 Employees
Regardless of their employment categories, all University employees must comply
with Japanese laws and regulations, “the Rules of Employment etc.” and OIST’s
policies, rules and procedures.
30.4.2 Supervisors
Supervisors are responsible for administering and applying Japanese laws and
regulations, “the Rules of Employment etc.” and OIST’s policies, rules and
procedures of HR (Chapters 30 – 41) equitably and fairly. The supervisor is also a
person accountable for the supervision of his/her members.
5
ch30_human-resources_en_20180401_cl

30.4.3 Employee Representative
The Employee Representative deals with the matters which are necessary to
conclude agreements between OIST and the representative at least half of all
University employees according to Labor Standard Act.
30.4.4 Vice President for Gender Equality and Human Resource Development
(VPGEHR)
The VPGEHR is responsible for overseeing implementation of “the Rules of
Employment etc.” and policies, rules and procedures of HR, based on Japanese
laws and regulations. The VPGEHR shall maintain the Rules of Employment and
administrative policies, rules and procedures of HR and set necessary guidelines
for matters, subject to permission or approval by University. The VPGEHR shall
also inform employees about “the Rules of Employment etc.” and policies, rules
and procedures of HR.
30.4.5 HR Management Section and HR Recruiting Support Section
HR Management Section and HR Recruiting Support Section shall assist the
VPGEHR on HR matters.
30.5 Contacts
30.5.1 Policy Owner
Vice President for Gender Equality and Human Resource Development
30.5.2 Other Contacts
HR Management Section
HR Recruiting Support Section
Diversity and Welfare Section
30.8 Definitions

6
ch30_human-resources_en_20180401_cl

OIST Graduate University
Policies, Rules & Procedures
Authority:
 Approved by the President
 Labor Standard Act
 Labor Contract Act
 Act on Securing, Etc. of Equal Opportunity and Treatment between Men and Women
in Employment
 Act for Securing the Proper Operation of Worker Dispatching Undertakings and
Improved Working Conditions for Dispatched Workers
 Act on Improvement, etc. of Employment Management for Part-Time Workers
 Act for Employment Promotion etc. of Persons with disabilities
 Act on Employment Security, etc. of the Elderly, etc.

Chapter 31. Hiring Process
31.1 Policy
The OIST Graduate University encourages qualified candidates to apply for employment
with the University and seeks to hire those individuals who best meet the needs of the
University. In its recruitment and hiring practices, the University is committed to providing
both employment and career development opportunities because this benefits both the
individual and the University.
The University is also committed to equal opportunity employment policies and procedures
and will ensure that all forms of recruitment provide equal opportunity for
underrepresented populations, such as women and minorities.
31.2 General Considerations
Selection process rules (31.3.2) do not apply to faculty members, except for 31.3.2.5 [link:
31.3.2]. Please refer to the Faculty Handbook [link: 3.1] for guidance with regard to faculty.
31.3 Rules
31.3.1 Advertisement
31.3.1.1 In general, all job opportunities at the University must be posted
internally and externally on the University website [link:
http://www.oist.jp/].
31.3.1.1.1 In order to assure career development within the
University, some vacant or new positions may be posted on the
1
ch31_recruitment-and-hiring_20170302_en_cl

internal website only, as determined by the Hiring Executive [link:
31.8.1] in consultation with the Hiring Approver.
31.3.1.2 To ensure that all potential internal and external qualified
candidates have adequate opportunity to view and apply for jobs at the
University, any notice of a vacant or new position must be posted for at least
five business days before an employment offer may be made.
31.3.1.3 Exceptions to the requirement for website posting of employment
opportunities may be granted if the position is part of a predetermined career
path, is merely a reclassification due to change in duties, or resulted from a
reorganization. These and any other posting exceptions must be approved
by the Vice President for Gender Equality and Human Resource
Development (VPGEHR).
31.3.2 Selection
31.3.2.1 University employees in principle, are hired following transparent
and fair competitive process. This process normally includes reviewing
application documents and conducting employment interviews by the
Hiring Executive. Additional steps, such as checking references, may be
conducted when the Hiring Executive, in consultation with the HR
Management Section, determines it to be necessary.
31.3.2.3 Selection Committee. An advisory selection committee is formed
when hiring a Permanent Employee or when the Hiring Approver [link:
31.8.2] considers it necessary. The committee may include external experts
in addition to University employees. The committee will conduct collective
reviews of candidates and offer advice and recommendations concerning
the candidates.
31.3.2.4 To hire the Senior Level Executive provided in item 7, paragraph
2, Article 6 of the Bylaws, the CEO/President must obtain an approval from
the Board of Governors. [link: 2.2]
31.3.2.5 All applicants for employment must be processed through the HR
Management Section.
31.3.3 Travel Reimbursement for Candidates
The University reimburses employment candidates for reasonable expenses

2
ch31_recruitment-and-hiring_20170302_en_cl

incurred when traveling to the University or any other convenient place for an
employment interview. To be eligible for reimbursement, candidates must be
invited to the interview by the HR Management Section and must follow the Travel
Policy regarding recruitment, [link: 29.2.6]
31.3.4 Documents to be Submitted
Details are described in Article 12, Rules of Employment and Article 2.2,
Rules of Employment for Part-time Employees.

31.3.5 Probationary Period
Details are described in Article 13, Rules of Employment and Article 2.4,
Rules of Employment for Part-time Employees.
A newly hired employee, must serve a probationary period, to allow him/her time
to become proficient in the basic responsibilities of a new position, and permit the
Hiring Executive to evaluate the individual’s performance and suitability for the
position.
31.3.5.1 Any decision about an extension of the Probationary Period
(31.3.5.2) or about dismissal of the employee (31.3.5.3) must be approved
by the Approver (in consultation with the selection committee, if one was
formed for selecting the new hire for the position).
31.3.6 Reassignment (Transfer) and Temporary Transfers
31.3.6.1 Eligibility:
University employees are eligible to apply for a different position after 6
months in their current position. The 6 month requirement may be waived
for special circumstances with approval by the Vice President for Gender
Equality and Human Resource Development (VPGEHR).
31.6.2
Other details are described in Article 58, Rules of Employment and Article
2.4, Rules of Employment for Part-time Employees.
31.4 Responsibilities
31.4.1 Hiring Executive
The Hiring Executive must follow the established rules and procedures to ensure
that equitable and efficient hiring practices are used throughout the University.

3
ch31_recruitment-and-hiring_20170302_en_cl

Delegation of the hiring process role, for below Manager-level employees, may be
allowed at the discretion of the Hiring Executive, to the Supervisor of Section or
Unit. Even in this case, however, the Hiring executive remains responsible for the
hiring process including the final decision and is accountable for the supervision of
relevant employee.
31.4.2 HR Management Section
The HR Management Section is responsible for posting jobs, processing
applications, and providing necessary support to the Hiring Executive,. The HR
Management Section serves as the secretariat of the selection committees.
31.4.3 Newly hired employees
Newly hired employees must submit documents specified in Article 12[link: ],
Rules of Employment and Article 2.2[link:], Rules of Employment for Part-time
Employees. Employees must inform HR Management Section without delay, when
any changes occur to details stated in the documents,

31.5 Procedures
31.5.1 How to Request a New Position.
31.5.1.1 When the need to fill a position is identified, the Hiring Executive
must apply with a Personnel Requisition through the Talent Mobility Form
(hereinafter referred to as ““TMF”). The Hiring Executive must be
accountable for identifying hiring needs, developing the job description, for
the position before requesting.
31.5.1.2 The HR Management Section initiates job posting upon receiving
the Personnel Requisition through TMF. [link: 31.3.1]
31.5.2 Hiring Process after Selecting Candidates.
31.5.2.1 The Hiring Executive complete a Personnel Action through TMF
to proceed with the hiring process Other related documents [link: 31.6]
should also be submitted to HR Management Section.
31.5.2.2 With approval of the Hiring Executive and the Approver, the HR
Management Section, sends out the offer letterto the selected candidate.
31.5.3 OIST ID Card

4
ch31_recruitment-and-hiring_20170302_en_cl

To issue OIST ID Card, please refer to "Regulations for OIST ID Cards"[link: ].
31.6 Forms
See HR website [link: http://hr.oist.jp/recruit/index.html]
31.7 Contacts
31.7.1 Policy Owner
Vice President for Gender Equality and Human Resource Development
(VPGEHR)
31.7.2 Other Contacts
HR Management Section
31.8 Definitions
31.8.1 Hiring Executive
Hiring Executive is a Senior Level Executive with the ultimate decision on
offering a job to potential candidates.
31.8.2 Hiring Approver
Hiring Approver is a person who has an authority to approve the job description
and the hiring process. Hiring Approver is normally the Vice President for Gender
Equality and Human Resource Development (VPGEHR), but the Hiring Approver
may be the President with regard to Senior Level Executives [link: 30.2.2] and
other positions specified by the President.

5
ch31_recruitment-and-hiring_20170302_en_cl

OIST Graduate University
Policies, Rules & Procedures
Authority:
 Approved by the President
 Labor Standard Act
 Labor Contract Act
 Act on Securing, Etc. of Equal Opportunity and Treatment between Men and Women
in Employment
 Act on the Welfare of Workers Who Take Care of Children or Other Family
Members Including Child Care and Family Care Leave
 Act on Special Measures Concerning the Improvement of Establishing Working
Hours, etc.

Chapter 32. Work Schedules and Breaks
32.1 Policy
The OIST Graduate University (the University) establishes the regular work schedule,
breaks, and holidays. To accomplish the business objectives of the University, all
employees are expected to be punctual and dependable in their attendance.
32.2 General Considerations
The University recognizes the importance of balancing work and family life, and supports
employees by granting special accommodation of work schedule as appropriate, including
flexible work schedules as well as exemption from (and restrictions on) overtime and latenight work, in keeping with relevant laws and regulations.
Furthermore, the University requires that administrative meetings (e.g., Senior Level
Executive, Divisional, Sectional and Committee meetings) and mandatory research
meetings be scheduled, and concluded, within regular business hours (9:00 – 17:30).
However, emergencies and/or exceptional circumstances may be dealt with outside of
usual business hours.







Time for Childcare (32.3.1.2) [link: 32.3.1]
Shortened Working Hours for Childcare and Nursing Care (32.3.1.3) [link:
32.3.1]
Working Hours for Pregnant and Nursing Employees (32.3.3.1) [link: 32.3.3]
Limitations on Unscheduled Work for Childcare (32.3.3.2) [link: 32.3.3]
Limitations on Overtime Work for Childcare and Family Care (32.3.3.3) [link:
32.3.3]
Limitations on Late-Night Work for Childcare and Family Care (32.3.3.4) [link:
1
ch32_work-schedules-and-breaks_20170316_en_cl

32.3.3]
32.3 Rules
32.3.1 Work Schedules and Rest Period
32.3.1.1 Working Hours, Rest Period and Scheduled starting and finishing
times.
Details are described in Article 21 [Link: ], Rules of Employment and
Article 4.1 [Link: ], Rules of Employment for Part-time Employees.
32.3.1.2 Time for Childcare
Details are described in Article 40 [Link: ], Rules of Employment and
Article 4.3 [Link: ], Rules of Employment for Part-time Employees.
32.3.1.3 Shortened Working Hours for Childcare and Family Care
Details are described in Article 45 and Article 53 [Link: ], Rules of
Employment and Article 4.4 [Link: ], Rules of Employment for Part-time
Employees.
32.3.1.4 Flextime System
Details are described in Article 29 [Link: ], Rules of Employment.
32.3.2 Holidays
Details are described in Articles 22, 23 and 24 [Link: ], Rules of Employment and
Article 4.5 [Link: ], Rules of Employment for Part-time Employees.
32.3.3 Overtime and Holiday Work
Details are described in Article 26 [Link: ], Rules of Employment and Article 4.6
[Link: ], Rules of Employment for Part-time Employees.
32.3.3.1 Working Hours for Pregnant and Nursing Employees
Details are described in Article 39 [Link: ], the Rules of Employment and
Article 4.7 [Link: ], the Rules of Employment for Part-time Employees.
32.3.3.2 Limitations on Unscheduled Work for Childcare
Details are described in Article 46 [Link: ], Rules of Employment and
Article 4.8 [Link: ], Rules of Employment for Part-time Employees
32.3.3.3 Limitations on Overtime Work for Childcare and Family Care

2
ch32_work-schedules-and-breaks_20170316_en_cl

Details are described in Article 47 and Article 54 [Link: ], Rules of
Employment and Article 4.9 [Link: ], Rules of Employment for Part-time
Employees.
32.3.3.4 Limitations on Late-Night Work for Childcare and Nursing Care
Details are described in Article 48 and Article 55 [Link: ], Rules of
Employment and Article 4.10 [Link: ], Rules of Employment for Part-time
Employees.
32.3.4 Reporting for Work, Absence and Punctuality
Details are described in Article 25 [Link: ], Rules of Employment and Chapter 5
[Link: ], Rules of Employment for Part-time Employees.
32.3.5 Business Trips and Working Outside the Workplace
Details are described in Article 30 [Link: ], Rules of Employment and Article 5.5
[Link: ], Rules of Employment for Part-time Employees
32.3.6 External Professional Activities
Details are described in PRP Chapter 22 [Link:22.1.4] and in the Rules for External
Professional Activities.
32.4 Responsibilities
32.4.1 Employees
All employees must report information regarding attendance, absence, lateness,
leaving early, and business trips to their immediate supervisor on the System as
necessary.
32.4.2 Supervisors
Supervisors must be well aware of the attendance status of their subordinates and
must give them necessary guidance and instruction.
32.4.3 The Human Resource Management Section
When special accommodation of work schedule is requested, the Human Resource
Management Section must respond to the applicant’s requests promptly after
ascertaining their eligibility.
32.4.4 The Diversity Section
The Diversity Section is responsible for monitoring implementation of the special
work schedule accommodations specified in this Chapter and for ensuring that

3
ch32_work-schedules-and-breaks_20170316_en_cl

applicants and recipients of such accommodation do not experience discrimination
or harassment.
32.5 Procedures
32.6 Forms
See HR website [link: http://hr.oist.jp/english/download/index.html]
32.7

Contacts
32.7.1 Policy Owner
Vice President for Gender Equality and Human Resource Development (VPGEHR)
32.7.2 Other Contacts:
HR Management Section
Diversity Section

32.8 Definitions
32.8.1 Holidays
Holidays are the days when employees have no work obligations.
32.8.2 Child (Japanese laws and regulations shall be applied.)
 Natural child
 Legally adopted child
32.8.3 Condition Requiring Care and the Applicable Family Member
Details are described in Article 49.1 [Link: ], Rules of Employment.


4
ch32_work-schedules-and-breaks_20170316_en_cl

OIST Graduate University
Policies, Rules & Procedures
Authority:
 Approved by the President
 Labor Standard Act
 Act on Securing, Etc. of Equal Opportunity and Treatment between Men and Women
in Employment
 Act on the Welfare of Workers Who Take Care of Children or Other Family
Members Including Child Care and Family Care Leave
 Act on Special Measures Concerning the Improvement of Establishing Working
Hours, etc.

Chapter 33. Leave
33.1 Policy
The OIST Graduate University recognizes the importance and value of leave in order for
employees to have time away from work for a variety of reasons including recreation and
physical and mental well-being. The University grants to eligible employees paid and unpaid leave. In addition, the University may instruct employees unable to work for certain
reasons to take administrative leave.
The University also recognizes the challenges many employees face in meeting both work
and family responsibilities. As an employer, the University believes that adequate and
flexible leave policies assist employees in meeting these dual responsibilities and result in
higher productivity in the workplace. The University conforms to the Act on the Welfare
of Workers Who Take Care of Children or Other Family Members Including Childcare and
Family Care Leaves (Childcare and Family Care Leave Act, Act No. 76 of 1991) and all
relevant laws and regulations, allowing employees a healthier balance between family and
work life. Any harassment or discriminatory treatment for using these programs is
prohibited.
33.3 Rules
33.3.1 Annual Paid Leave
Details are described in Article 32 to Article 34 [Link: ], Rules of Employment
and Article 6.1 [Link: ], Rules of Employment for Part-time Employees.
33.3.2 Summer Leave
Details are described in Article 37 [Link: ], Rules of Employment.

1
ch33_leave_20161102_en_cl

33.3.3 Maternity Leave
Details are described in Article 38 [Link: ], Rules of Employment and Article 6.2
[Link: ], Rules of Employment for Part-time Employees.
33.3.4 Sick Leave
Details are described in Article 35 [Link: ], Rules of Employment.
33.3.5 Special Leave
Details are described in Article 36 [Link: ], Rules of Employment and Article 6.3
[Link: ], Rules of Employment for Part-time Employees.
33.3.6 Childcare Leave and Nursing Care Leave
Details are described in Article 41 to Article 44 [Link: ] and Article 49 to Article
52 [Link: ], Rules of Employment and Article 6.4 [Link: ], Rules of Employment
for Part-time Employees.

33.3.7 Measure Relating to Health Care During Pregnancy and Childbirth
Details are described in Article 72 [Link: ], Rules of Employment and Article 6.5
[Link: ], Rules of Employment for Part-time Employees.
33.3.8 Administrative Leave
Details are described in Article 60 to Article 64 [Link: ], Rules of Employment.
33.4 Responsibilities
33.4.1 Persons planning to take Leave
Persons planning to take Leave must give notice of the dates and duration of the
leave (along with justification for Special Leave) in advance, to his/her immediate
supervisor through the Working Time Management System. Employees are
encouraged to make leave schedules in a planned manner.
33.4.2 Supervisors
Supervisors are responsible for balancing the individual employee’s needs, the
workload of coworkers and effective business operation under their control.

33.4.3 The HR Management Section
The HR Management Section is responsible for administering the leave policies
fairly, and providing necessary guidance regarding the leave policies to

2
ch33_leave_20161102_en_cl

employees and supervisors.
33.4.4 The Diversity Section
The Diversity Section is responsible for monitoring the implementation of
pertinent leave, as specified in this Chapter, and for ensuring that applicants and
users of such leave, will not experience discrimination or harassment, as a result
of taking leave.
33.5 Procedures
33.6 Forms
See HR website [link: http://hr.oist.jp/english/download/index.html]
33.7 Contacts
33.7.1 Policy Owner
Vice President for Gender Equality and Human Resource Development
(VPGEHR)
33.7.2 Other Contacts
HR Management Section
Diversity Section
33.8 Definitions
33.8.1 Child
Please refer to 32.8.1[Link].
33.8.2 Condition Requiring Care and the Applicable Family Member
Please refer to 32.8.2[Link].

3
ch33_leave_20161102_en_cl

OIST Graduate University
Policies, Rules & Procedures
Authority:
 Approved by the President
 Labor Standard Act
 Act on Securing, Etc. of Equal Opportunity and Treatment between Men and Women
in Employment
 Act on Securing the Payment of Wages
 Minimum Wages Act
 Act on the Collection, etc. of Insurance Premiums of Labor Insurance
 Industrial Accident Compensation Insurance Act
 Employment Insurance Act
 National Pension Act
 Health Insurance Act
 Long-Term Care Insurance Act
 Income Tax Act
 Local Tax Act
 Act Concerning Access to Information Held by Independent Administrative
Institutions, etc.

Chapter 34. Compensation
34.1 Policy
The OIST Graduate University administers compensation policies and programs to reflect
the value of job duties and responsibilities and to provide competitive and equitable pay.
The University’s compensation policies are designed to accomplish the following goals:
 Allow the University to attract, retain, and motivate competent employees by
establishing and maintaining a salary structure that is internationally
competitive;
 Promote internal equity and consistency across diverse University functions;
 Establish salary ranges that are broad enough to provide flexibility for
management at the same time as respecting budgetary restraints;
 Provide the foundation for a performance-based pay system; and
 Uphold transparency and accountability in administrating personnel costs to
funding bodies and general public.
34.2 General Considerations
34.2.1 Equal Opportunity
The compensation policies will be consistent with the Equal Opportunity Policy
1
ch34_compensation_en_20170101_cl

[link: 1.3.2], and there will be no discriminatory treatment in compensation due to
race, color, religion, national origin, ancestry, physical and mental disability,
medical condition, marital status, gender, sexual orientation, or age.
34.2.2 Accountability to General Public
As an entity established by a special Act and initially funded by the Japanese
Government, the University is required to provide salaries that are appropriate to
the work and understandable to the general public, taking into consideration similar
salaries of national government employees. The University will make available
information regarding the salary levels of its employees and Officers every fiscal
year, based on guidance by the government ministries.
34.3 Rules
34.3.1 Categories of Compensation
Compensation (except for that of Administrative Assistants [link: 34.3.7]) will
comprise;
 Annual Salary [link: 34.3.2],
 Year-End Bonus [link: 34.3.3],
 Overtime Premium [link: 34.3.4], and
 Allowances [link: 34.3.5];
- Commuting Allowance (34.3.5.1),
- Housing Allowance (34.3.5.2), and
- Away from Home Allowance (for Permanent Employees) (34.3.5.3).
34.3.2 Annual Salary
The University maintains a pay structure based on job categories and responsibility
levels. That is, the University groups positions that are similar in nature and
difficulty in terms of duties, responsibilities, and compensation (see 34.3.2.1). The
University studies compensation trends in these job categories (and levels) in order
to determine equitable and consistent rate structures, and to maintain a competitive
position in the job market.
34.3.2.1 Job Classification
All University employee positions (except for those of wage employees
which are defined in 34.3.7[link: 34.3.7]) are separated into job categories
(classification based on similarity of duties and activities) and job levels
(classification based on relative difficulty of the job measured by factors
such as 1) responsibility, 2) expected knowledge, skills, abilities and
experience, and 3) complexity of problems) by evaluating job descriptions.

2
ch34_compensation_en_20170101_cl

(Chapter 31.5.1.3)[link: 31.5.1]
34.3.2.1.1 Promotion
“Promotion” is to be promoted to a higher job rank given the
result of the annual performance evaluation and its abilities.
Review of the Salary Review Committee: SRC is necessary for this
promotion.
34.3.2.1.2 Demotion・Salary Decrease
Demotion is a movement to a lower job class from the current
position. An Employee is subject to demotion when;
 An Employee is rated “Needs Improvement” (3 rating scale,
Excellent, Good, Needs Improvement) for 2 (two)
consecutive years at the Annual Performance Evaluation
 The University determines that the employee assigned to
his/her position clearly lacks the necessary qualifications for
the position. This demotion must be reviewed by the Salary
Review Committee.
 An employee fails to meet the University’s performance
standards and the University considers it necessary to
demote him/her as a disciplinary action （PRP38.3.5）
Following demotion, salary will be reduced by a maximum of 10%
of the employee’s current salary.
34.3.2.2 Salary Plan
34.3.2.2.1 Each job level of each job category has an annual salary
range with:
 Mid Point: Represents average market income for each level.
 Minimum: a specified percent below Mid Point.
 Maximum: a specified percent above Mid Point.
34.3.2.2.2 The rate range for each level is established and annually
reviewed considering various factors.
34.3.2.2.3 Based on the annual review, changes in rate ranges are
proposed by the Vice President for Gender Equality and Human
Resource Development (VPGEHR) as necessary. With the review
of the SRC established by the CEO/President, these changes are
usually made effective April 1.
3
ch34_compensation_en_20170101_cl

Changes in rate ranges are applied uniformly to all employees in the
range on the day the changes become effective in principle.
34.3.2.2.4 Individuals will be paid at a rate within the range
according to their ability, training, experience, performance and
internal equity, subject to the approval of the Vice President for
Gender Equality and Human Resource Development (VPGEHR), or
the CEO/President for Senior Level Executives and Faculty
members.
Annual Salaries of the employees whose contract terms are less than
1 year shall be proportionated to the length of the contract.
34.3.2.2.5 The Additional Allowance shall be paid based on duty
and responsibility except the base salary if the chief Executive
Officer(CEO)/President set down the criteria separately.
In that case, preceding Chapter 34.3.2(Annual Salary) should not be
applied/
34.3.2.3 Merit Increase
34.3.2.3.1 Merit increase is a salary increase program designed for
permanent increases to Annual Salaries adjusted by the result of
annual review of the employee’s performance. The performance of
employees other than Faculty members and researchers is annually
assessed and rated by the Annual Performance Evaluation (APE)
results. [link: 36]
34.3.2.3.2 A “Merit Increase Guideline” that specifies an increase
percent for each performance rating, is proposed annually by the
Vice President for Gender Equality and Human Resource
Development (VPGEHR) and reviewed by the SRC. The Guideline
is set in view of trends in the cost of living, competitiveness of the
job market, University budgets, and other relevant factors.
34.3.2.3.3 Eligibility. Employees are not eligible for salary increase
if:
 Their salaries are equal to their job level Maximum salary;
 They have been continuously employed by the University
for less than 3 months;
 They are on Administrative Leave [link: 33.3.9];

4
ch34_compensation_en_20170101_cl






They have been on leave without pay for a period longer
than 9 months during the current fiscal year;
They are not subject to the Annual Performance Evaluation,
as is the case typically for Postdoctoral Scholars; or
The length of their employment contracts is 1 year or less.
Faculty members and APE eligible employees whose age
reaches beyond the following at the beginning of the new
fiscal year (as of April 1)
- Faculty Members: 70
- Permanent Employee: 65
- Fixed Term Employee (including Continuing
Appointments): 65

34.3.2.4 A Merit Increase does not guarantee an annual salary increase
every year. The salary may fluctuate depending on the change in the rate
ranges, the result of each employee’s performance review, and other
relevant factors.
34.3.3 Year-End Bonus
Year-End Bonus may be given to a relatively small number of individuals who
made a significant achievement or contribution to the University, based on their
APE. A “Year-End Bonus Guideline,” proposed by Vice President for Gender
Equality and Human Resource Development (VPGEHR) and approved by the SRC,
will specify the percentage of the bonus relative to annual salary, criteria for the
bonus, and other relevant matters.
Employees who are not eligible for a Merit Increase are similarly not eligible for
Year-End Bonus.
34.3.4 Overtime Premium
34.3.4.1 Overtime Premium is paid monthly to employees for each hour
they are instructed by an authorized supervisor to work in excess of
scheduled working hours.
34.3.4.2 The amount of Overtime Premium per hour is calculated by
multiplying the amount of an employee’s hourly salary (Chapter
34.3.6.5[link: 34.3.6]) with the overtime premium rate specified below.
 Work exceeding the scheduled working hours on days other than
statutory holidays (Sundays and national holidays)

5
ch34_compensation_en_20170101_cl




- Up to 60 hours: 25 percent
- More than 60 hours: 50 percent
Work on statutory holidays (Sundays and national holidays): 35
percent
Work at late-night (after 10:00 pm and before 5:00 am): additional
25 percent

34.3.4.3 The Amount of Overtime Premium for Part-time Employees are as
stipulated in the Compensation Rules for Part-time Employees [link: ].
34.3.5 Allowances
34.3.5.1 Commuting Allowance
A Commuting Allowance is paid to employees commuting over a distance
of more than 2 kilometers.
The amount of each commuting allowance is determined according to
factors such as measures of commuting and distances in the case that
employees use automobiles for commuting, as specified in the attached
table. [link: http://hr.oist.jp/english/income/index.html]
34.3.5.2 Housing Allowance
A Housing Allowance is paid to full-time employees who rent housing for
their own residences and pay the rent themselves. However, a Housing
Allowance shall not be paid to full-time employees who own a house within
Okinawa Main Island or assumes ownership of house within Okinawa Main
Island in principle.
The amount is determined based on the attached table. [link:
http://hr.oist.jp/english/income/index.html]
34.3.5.3 Away from Home Allowance
An Away from Home Allowance is paid to Permanent Employees who
change their residence to outside of Okinawa (living separately from their
spouse) due to a relocation of workplace instructed by the University or
Permanent Employees under similar circumstances approved by Vice
President for Gender Equality and Human Resource Development
(VPGEHR).
The monthly amount is determined based on the attached table. [link:
http://hr.oist.jp/guideline/pdf/Compensation_Regulations_for_Permanent_
Employees_je.pdf#page=14]

6
ch34_compensation_en_20170101_cl

34.3.6 Rules of Payment
34.3.6.1 Pay Date. Compensation is paid monthly (for the first day to the
last day of the month) on the 17th of the every month (or on the closest
preceding business day if the 17th falls upon a holiday.)
When an employee is hired, retires, takes Administrative Leave, or
experiences any other changes which affect compensation during the course
of the month, his/her monthly compensation, Commuting Allowance and
Housing Allowance for that month is calculated on a pro-rated basis based
on the number of scheduled work days.
34.3.6.2 Early Payment. At the request of an employee, early payment of
compensation for past work may be made at the discretion of the University
when the employee or individuals dependent on his/her income is in the
following circumstances;
 Required to return to their hometown for unavoidable reasons for a
period of more than a week; or
 Becomes burdened with costs arising from marriage, funeral, birth,
illness, calamity or death.
This also applies to the case where an employee leaves the University for
retirement or dismissal.
34.3.6.3 Pay Method. Compensation is directly paid in cash to employees.
However, with the consent of the employee, it may be paid by electronic
transfer directly into saving accounts in a bank or other financial institutions
designated by the employee.
34.3.6.4 Deduction. Compensation is paid after deducting the payments that
the University is allowed or required to deduct under laws, regulations or a
written agreement concluded with the Employment Representative.
34.3.6.5 Monthly, Daily, Hourly Salary. The amount of monthly, daily and
hourly salaries are calculated by the following formulas:
 Monthly: [Annual Salary] divided by 12 (or the number of months
of the employment contract if that is less than 12.)
 Daily: [Monthly Salary] divided by [[the number of days of the
month] minus [the number of holidays of the month]]
 Hourly: [Monthly Salary] divided by [the average monthly number
of regularly scheduled working hours]

7
ch34_compensation_en_20170101_cl

34.3.6.6 Fractions. In the calculation of compensation, fractions of less than
0.5 yen will be rounded down and fractions of between 0.5 yen or more and
less than 1 yen will be counted as 1 yen.
34.3.6.7 Absence and Leaves. The amount for each day and each hour of
absence (including lateness and leaving early) or un-paid leaves, calculated
with daily and hourly salary (34.3.6.5), will be deducted from the monthly
salary.
During the period of the paid leave (except for Administrative Leave) listed
in Chapter 33.3.1 [link: 33.3.1], the regular compensation to be paid when
employees work for scheduled working hours will be paid.
Compensation for employees on Administrative Leave is set forth in
Chapter 33.3.9 [link: 33.3.9].
34.3.7 Salary of Administrative Assistants
34.3.7.1 Categories of Compensation. Compensation of Administrative
Assistants (part-time employees (Chapter 30.2.2.3.2)[link: 30.2.2] who are
engaged in routine clerical duties is usually made up of:
 Base Salary;
 Overtime Premium [link: 34.3.4]; and
 Commuting Allowance [link: 34.3.5].
34.3.7.2 Base Salary. Base Salary is determined by the number of scheduled
work days per month and an hourly wage individually decided by the HR
Management Section between 700 and 2,500 yen per hour depending on
their job description and their experiences.
34.3.7.3 Compensation is paid monthly with the last day of the month as the
wage cutoff date, on the 17th day of the following month (or on the closest
preceding business day if the 17th falls upon a holiday.)
34.3.7.4 Reduction of Compensation. When an Administrative Assistant
does not work during his/her scheduled work hours (aside from paid
holidays), the employee’s compensation is reduced by one hour of wages
for each hour the employee does not work.
34.3.7.5 The following provisions are applied to Administrative Assistants.
 Overtime Premium (34.3.4)
(“Hourly salary” in 34.3.4[link: 34.3.4] is replaced by “hourly

8
ch34_compensation_en_20170101_cl



wage.”)
Rules of Payment (34.3.6) except for 34.3.6.1, 34.3.6.5, and
34.3.6.7[link: 34.3.6].

34.3.8 Temporary Measures for Transition
Notwithstanding the rules set forth from 34.3.1 through 34.3.8, with regard to any
matters of employee compensation, the provisions of the following rules basically
transferred from the OIST Promotion Corporation will be applicable for the time
being in order to achieve a smooth transition from the OIST Promotion Corporation
to the OIST School Corporation.
 Compensation Rules for Permanent Employees
 Compensation Rules for Fixed-term Employees
 Compensation Rules for Administrative Assistants
 Compensation Rules for Graduate Students Research Assistants
34.3.9 Compensation for Full-time Officers
34.3.9.1 Categories of Compensation. Compensation of full-time Officers
(the CEO/President, the Vice CEO, and Full-time Auditor) comprises:
 Base Salary;
 Special Adjustment Allowance;
 Commuting Allowance; and
 Housing Allowance.
34.3.9.2 Base Salary. Amount of Base Salary is determined by the Board of
Governors within the maximum amount specified in the following table:
Officers
The maximum amount (yen)
The CEO
30,000,000
The Vice-CEO
20,000,000
Auditor
15,000,000
34.3.9.3 Special Adjustment Allowance. A Special Adjustment Allowance
may be paid to full-time Officers when it is deemed necessary in
consideration of their experience regarding internationally excellent
scientific research and education, difficulty of duties, past achievements,
and anticipated contributions.
The amount of Special Adjustment Allowance is determined by the Board
of Governors (BOG) after consultation with the cabinet Office.
34.3.9.4 Commuting Allowance. Rules on Commuting Allowance for
9
ch34_compensation_en_20170101_cl

employees (34.3.5.1[link: 34.3.5]) are applied to Full-time Officers.
34.3.9.5 Housing Allowance. Rules on Housing Allowance for employees
(34.3.5.2[link: 34.3.5]) are applied to Full-time Officers.
34.3.9.6 Pay Dates. Compensation is paid monthly (for the first day to the
last day of the month) on the 17th of the every month (on the closest
preceding business day if the 17th falls upon a holiday.)
When an Officer is newly appointed, or resigns or is dismissed, during the
course of the month, his/her monthly compensation, Commuting Allowance
and Housing Allowance of that month is calculated on a pro-rated basis
based on the number of business days. However, the entire amount of the
monthly compensation is paid when the Officer dies during the course of
the month.
34.3.9.7 Pay Method. The compensation of Officers is paid, after deducting
all amounts that are to be deducted from the Officer’s compensation by law,
directly in cash or via bank transfer to the deposit or saving account
designated by the Officer.
34.3.9.8 Monthly Compensation. Amount of monthly compensation is
calculated by the following formula:
[[Base Salary] + [Special Adjustment Allowance]/12 (or the number of
months of the appointment contract if that is less than 12)
34.3.9.9 Fractions. In the calculation of compensation, fractions of less than
0.5 yen will be rounded down and fractions of between 0.5 yen or more and
less than 1 yen will be counted as 1 yen.
34.3.10 Part-time Officers
The compensation of Part-time Officers is paid as determined separately by the
Board of Governors in accordance with their position, considering their working
arrangements.
34.4 Responsibilities
34.4.1 HR Management Section
The HR Management Section is responsible for administering the compensation
policies fairly and accurately.

10
ch34_compensation_en_20170101_cl

34.4.2 Vice President for Gender Equality and Human Resource Development
(VPGEHR)
Vice President for Gender Equality and Human Resource Development (VPGEHR)
is responsible for reviewing the salary structure annually and proposing necessary
changes to the SRC. VPGEHR is also responsible for ensuring that individual salary
levels properly reflect various elements and maintain internal equity.
34.4.3 CEO/President
The CEO/President shall establish the SRC and appoint the committee members
from OIST Graduate University employees in the relevant positions. The Office
Manager of the President Office will serve as the secretariat of the SRC.
34.4.4 Employees
All University employees and officers must promptly notify the HR Management
Section of any changes that could affect their allowances, such as commuting
distance or location of residence.
34.5 Procedures
34.6 Forms
34.7 Contacts
34.7.1 Policy Owner:
Vice President for Gender Equality and Human Resource Development
(VPGEHR)
34.7.2 Other Contacts:
HR Management Section
34.8 Definitions

11
ch34_compensation_en_20170101_cl

OIST Graduate University
Policies, Rules & Procedures
Authority: Approved by the President

Chapter 35. Benefits
35.1 Policy
The OIST Graduate University provides benefits to eligible employees and their
dependents based on employment categories, length of service, and other criteria.
In addition to the benefits directly provided by the University, full-time employees and
part-time employees with scheduled working hours more than the standard are eligible for
the Private School Mutual Aid System, comprising medical (including dental) insurance,
retirement pension, and other benefit systems, pursuant to the relevant laws and regulations.
The Vice President for Gender Equality and Human Resource Development provides
information about these benefits.
35.3 Rules
35.3.1 Retirement Plan
The Employee Retirement Allowance Plan (ERAP) provides eligible employees
with a retirement benefit (lump-sum payment) based on their years of service with
the University as employees.
For a smooth transition from the OIST Promotion Corporation to the OIST School
Corporation, eligibility for the ERAP is limited to Permanent Employees employed
as of the day before the transition (for the time being). During the period until the
implementation of a new plan(s), the ERAP will be administered pursuant to the
Rules
of
Retirement
Allowance
[link:
http://hr.oist.jp/english/guideline/pdf/Employee_Retirement_Allowance_Payment
_Regulations_e.pdf] whose provisions are basically the same as the rules before the
transition.
35.3.2 Retirement Plan for Officers
The Officer Retirement Allowance Plan (ORAP) provides full-time Officers with
a retirement benefit (lump-sum payment) based on their years of service with the
University as officers.
35.3.2.1 Calculation. Amount of the retirement allowance under the ORAP
is determined by the following formula;
[Monthly Base Salary (34.3.10.2) as of the date of retirement] multiplied
by [months of service] multiplied by 0.125 multiplied by 83.7/100
1
Ch35_benefits_en_20171215_cl

multiplied by [Performance Evaluation Rate]
35.3.2.1.1 The number of months of service is calculated from the
date of appointment. Fractions of less than 1 month are counted as
1 month.
35.3.2.1.2 The Performance Evaluation Rate (PER) is determined
between 0.0 and 2.0 by a committee designated by the Board of
Governors.
35.3.2.2 Payment. Retirement Allowance is paid to Officers when they reti
re or they are dismissed, or to their bereaved family should they die. Howe
ver, the allowance is not paid to Officers who are dismissed under the Item
1, Article 11 of the Bylaws of the OIST School Corporation. [link: https://
groups.oist.jp/sites/default/files/imce/u113/oistsc_bylaws.pdf]
Retirement Allowance is paid within 1 month after the date of the retirement
or the dismissal unless there are special circumstances. The allowance is
paid after deducting all amounts to be deducted pursuant to the relevant laws.
35.3.2.3 Implementation. The payment procedures, exceptional cases, and
other necessary items for the implementation of the ORAP are defined in t
he guidelines [link: https://groups.oist.jp/sites/default/files/imce/u113/35.3.
2.3_ImplementationoftheOfficersRetirementAllowancePlans.pdf] establish
ed by the Vice President for Gender Equality and Human Resource Develo
pment.
35.3.2.3.1 Transitional measure: In applying the provision of
35.3.2.1, the term “83.7/100” in the provision shall be “98/100” from
April 1, 2013 to September 30, 2013, shall be “92/100” from October
1, 2013 to June 30, 2014, and shall be “87/100” from July 1, 2014 to
December 31, 2017.
35.3.3 University Housing Program
The University owns several houses (Seaside Faculty Housing) at the Seaside
Campus, some of which is available for residential use of eligible members of the
University community. In addition, the University may rent houses (Rental
Housing) in the area surrounding the campus for the same purpose. The Division
of Buildings and Facilities Management is in charge of the management and
standards regarding the administration of Rental Housing are laid out in the OffCampus Rental Housing Regulations [link;]
2
Ch35_benefits_en_20171215_cl

Rules regarding short-term stays at Seaside Faculty Housing[link: 21.3.1.2] are
provided separately.
35.3.3.1 Eligibility: Full-time Officers, Vice Presidents and equivalents
, Faculty Members and other employees under special circumstances
approved by the President.
Rental Housing is not available for those who already have residence within
60 km from the working place.
35.3.3.2 Usage Agreement. A usage agreement must be signed between an
eligible user and the University before starting use. User obligations are
detailed in such agreements.
35.3.3.3 Usage Fees
35.3.3.3.1 On/Off-Campus Rental Housing. Residents of Rental
Housing are charged by the University usage fees of 20 percent (50
percent for Officers) of the rent (the maximum rent is specified in
the attached table [link:].)
35.3.3.3.2 When the house is occupied or vacated during the course
of a month, the fees are calculated on a per diem basis.
35.3.3.3.3 Usage and other fees charged by the University are
deducted from the renter’s compensation each month.
35.3.4 Special Assistance
The University provides special assistance to eligible University members when it
is considered particularly necessary to achieve the University’s mission of
recruiting and retaining highly talented individuals.
35.3.4.1 Eligibility. Full-time Officers and other individuals as determined
by the CEO/President.
35.3.4.2 Special assistance includes: lending of cars, furniture, and other
similar items, as well as providing childcare and other services, deemed
necessary by the CEO/President. Such assistance must be within socially
acceptable limits.

3
Ch35_benefits_en_20171215_cl

35.3.4.3 Details of special assistance must be clearly defined in the
employment contract.
35.4 Responsibilities
35.4.1 HR Management Section
The HR Management Section is responsible for carrying out administrative
procedures related to the mutual aid system for eligible employees and providing
necessary information with employees.
The HR Management Section is responsible for administering the benefits
programs described in this chapter.
35.5 Procedures
To apply for the University Housing Program, complete and submit a Form [link:
35.6] to the Division of Buildings and Facilities Management.
35.6 Forms
35.6.1 Application for Seaside Faculty Housing
Please contact the Division of Buildings and Facilities Management.
35.6.2 Application for Rental Housing
Please contact the Division of Buildings and Facilities Management.
35.7 Contacts
35.7.1 Policy Owner:
Vice President for Gender Equality and Human Resource Development
(VPGEHR)
35.7.2 Other Contacts:
HR Management Section [link: 2.5]
Division of Buildings and Facilities Management (Seaside Faculty Housing
and Off-Campus Rental Housing) [link: 2.5]
35.8 Definitions

4
Ch35_benefits_en_20171215_cl

OIST Graduate University
Policies, Rules & Procedures
Authority: Approved by the President

Chapter 36. Performance Evaluation
36.1 Policy
The OIST Graduate University’s Annual Performance Evaluation (APE) program
encourages ongoing communication between supervisors and staff in order to foster
performance improvement and career development. Supervisors are required to hold
performance evaluation discussions with all employees whom they directly supervise. The
APE program is also used in determining salary merit increase.
Excluded from this chapter are the following:
 Faculty Members;
 Researchers;
 Part-time Employees.
36.1.1 Review by the Salary Review Committee: SRC
SRC will review the related guidelines, parameters and scope for the APE.
36.3 Rules
36.3.1 Evaluation Period and Schedules
Performance evaluation is conducted annually to evaluate the employee’s
performance during the previous fiscal year and to set goals for the upcoming year.
The supervisor may conduct a performance evaluation more frequently if it is
deemed necessary.
Performance evaluation schedules are determined each fiscal year by the Vice
President for Gender Equality and Human Resource Development (VPGEHR) and
announced to employees. Generally, supervisors are expected to complete their
evaluation discussions by the middle of March, and the results are reflected in the
salary merit increases in April of the following fiscal year.
36.3.2 Goal Setting and Coaching
At the beginning of evaluation period (normally April every year), employees are
expected to work with their supervisors to develop a set of measurable and
achievable goals that can be worked on during the performance period. Supervisors
are expected to actively engage in providing feedback and coaching based on the
employee’s level of achievement toward each goal.

1
ch36_performance-evaluation_20161102en_cl

36.3.3 Evaluation Elements
Employee Evaluation is conducted by Performance Evaluation (Evaluation of the
performance delivered by the employee against pre-set annual goals), and Value
Competency relevant to the employee’s job grade will also be taken into
consideration.
Employees are rated for each element and given an overall rating by their
immediate supervisors on the on-line system [link:] based on the Employee
Evaluation Implementation Regulations [link: 36.5.1] developed separately by the
Vice President for Gender Equality and Human Resource Development (VPGEHR).
36.3.4 Confirmation and Adjustment
Evaluation results are submitted to and confirmed (and adjusted if necessary) by
the Supervisor’s Supervisor (hereinafter as “Certifier”) to ensure fair and consistent
evaluations throughout the organization. The Certifier is usually the supervisor’s
supervisor, designated separately by Vice President for Gender Equality and
Human Resource Development (VPGEHR).
36.3.5 Disclosure of Evaluation Results
Confirmed evaluation results are disclosed to the evaluated employees. Employees
have access to evaluation documents upon request and may make copies.
36.3.6 Complaints Procedures
Employees may complain in confidence about the evaluation results through the
Compliant Procedures developed by Vice President for Gender Equality and
Human Resource Development (VPGEHR). Every complaint is taken seriously by
the HR Management Section.
Any harassment and discriminatory treatment that is in response to the filing of a
complaint is prohibited.
36.3.7 Retention of Evaluation Documents
All evaluation documents are deemed confidential and are electronically sent to the
HR Management Section to keep in confidential files for a minimum of 5 years, or
longer if there is a good business reason.
36.3.8 Implementation
The Employee Evaluation Implementation Regulations [link: 36.5.1] prepared by
the Vice President for Gender Equality and Human Resource Development
(VPGEHR) provides details necessary to implement this policy, such as treatment
of employees who are hired or transferred or who took a leave during the course of
a fiscal year.

2
ch36_performance-evaluation_20161102en_cl

36.4 Responsibilities
36.4.1 All employees to whom the APE program applies
All employees to whom the APE program applies must develop a set of goals, in
collaboration with their supervisors, at the beginning of each evaluation period in
accordance with the Employee Evaluation Implementation Regulations [link:
36.5.1].
36.4.2 Supervisors
Supervisors are responsible for evaluating their staff in accordance with the
Employee Evaluation Implementation Regulations [link: 36.5.1] . Supervisors are
expected to engage in on-going communication with their staff and to provide
feedback and coaching throughout the evaluation period.
36.4.3 Certifiers
Certifiers are responsible for ensuring that evaluations are conducted fairly and in
a consistent manner. Certifiers must make adjustments in evaluation results if
necessary for that purpose.
36.4.4 Vice President for Gender Equality and Human Resource Development
(VPGEHR)
Vice President for Gender Equality and Human Resource Development (VPGEHR)
provides the Employee Evaluation Implementation Regulations [Link: 36.5.1] to
implement the APE program, and is responsible for the management of the program.
VPGEHR also prepares the Complaint Handling Guidelines [Link: 36.5.2].
36.4.5 HR Management Section
The HR Management Section is responsible for implementing the Annual
Performance Evaluation program. The HR Management Section must provide
employees, supervisors, and Certifiers with necessary training and guidance for the
Performance Evaluation. The HR Management Section is also responsible for
developing and managing the complaint procedures and for handling complaints in
accordance with those procedures.
36.5 Procedures
36.5.1 Employee Evaluation Implementation Regulations
Employee Evaluation Implementation Regulations [link:]

3
ch36_performance-evaluation_20161102en_cl

36.5.2 Complaint Handling Guidelines
Complaint Handling Guidelines[link:]
36.6 Forms
36.7 Contacts
36.7.1 Policy Owner
Vice President for Gender Equality and Human Resource Development
(VPGEHR)
36.7.2 Other Contacts
HR Management Section
36.8 Definitions

4
ch36_performance-evaluation_20161102en_cl

OIST Graduate University
Policies, Rules & Procedures
Authority:
 Approved by the President
 Labor Standard Act
 Labor Contract Act
 Act on Employment Security, etc. of the Elderly, etc.

Chapter 37. Leaving the University
37.1 Policy
Termination decisions must comply with internal and applicable legal requirements.
37.3 Rules
37.3.1 Termination
Details are described in Article 73 to Article 74 [Link: ], Rules of Employment and
Article 8.1[Link], Rules of Employment for Part-time Employees.
37.3.2 Retirement
Details are described in Article 75 [Link: ], Rules of Employment. Rules for reemployment after retirement are determined in Article 76 [Link: ], Rules of
Employment.
37.3.3 Dismissal
Details are described in Article 77 to Article 79 [Link: ], Rules of Employment and
Article 8.2 [Link: ], Rules of Employment for Part-time Employees.
37.3.4 Former Employees’ Duty of Confidentiality
Details are described in Article 80 [Link: ], Rules of Employment.

37.4 Responsibilities
37.4.1 Individuals terminating from the University
Employees
must
submit
the
necessary
documents
[link:
http://hr.oist.jp/english/download/index.html] to the HR Management Section at
least 1 month prior to the day they intend to resign. Individuals terminating from
the University are responsible for returning all of University property including
keys, identification cards, computers, software, phones to the responsible sections
1
ch37_leaving-the-university_en_20161102_cl

or their immediate supervisors.
37.4.2 Supervisors
Supervisors must follow established procedures regarding terminations and review
in advance with the HR Management Section and the Vice President for Gender
Equality and Human Resource Development (VPGEHR).
37.4.3 HR Management Section
The HR Management Section is responsible for assuring that relevant laws and
University rules regarding the termination of employees are observed.
37.5 Procedures
37.6 Forms
37.7 Contacts
37.7.1 Policy Owner:
Vice President for Gender Equality and Human Resource Development
(VPGEHR)
37.7.2 Other Contacts
HR Management Section
37.8 Definitions

2
ch37_leaving-the-university_en_20161102_cl

OIST Graduate University
Policies, Rules & Procedures
Authority
 Approved by the President
 Labor Standard Act

Chapter 38. Discipline
38.1 Policy
The OIST Graduate University sets expectations for employees on 1) time and attendance
and 2) conduct. Employees are responsible for meeting these expectations, and their failure
to do so will result in the University taking disciplinary action, up to and including
dismissal.
The University recognizes that the purpose of discipline in most cases is to help employees
improve time and attendance problems or other inappropriate behavior and actions. The
University ordinarily follows a system of progressive discipline to correct problems.
Employees who fail to correct a deficiency after progressive discipline may be dismissed.
Certain violations and infractions may be ruled sufficiently serious to suspend the normal
progressive disciplinary process. Under these circumstances, any step in the disciplinary
procedure may be used, including dismissal.
38.3 Rules
38.3.1 Issuing Disciplinary Action
When an employee fails to follow University standards, the University will take
steps to correct the situation and prevent further occurrences. The appropriate
discipline may vary depending on the seriousness of the offense, the circumstances
under which it occurred, prior problems, duties of the employee, and overall work
record with the University.
Details are described in Article 85 and 86 [Link: ], Rules of Employment and
Chapter 11 [Link: ], Rules of Employment for Part-time Employees.
38.3.2 Dismissal after Progressive Discipline
If a problem occurs and the employee has already received 2 active formal
disciplines, the employee may be dismissed.
Formal disciplinary action will cease to be active if no subsequent formal discipline
is issued within 12-months of the date of issuance.
38.3.3 Dismissal without Prior Discipline
An employee may be dismissed without prior discipline and without notice or pay
1
ch38_discipline_20161102_en_cl

in lieu of notice, when the reason for discipline is sufficiently serious and no
extenuating circumstances exist.
38.4 Responsibilities
38.4.1 Supervisors
Supervisors must consult with the HR Management Section when they identify a
discipline problem before taking actions. Normally, when the supervisor first
identifies a discipline problem, the supervisor must privately counsel the employee,
and outline the steps necessary to correct the problem. The supervisor will advise
the employee that any further problem may result in further discipline.
38.4.2 HR Management Section
The HR Management Section is responsible for administering the disciplinary
procedures.
38.5 Procedures
38.6 Forms
38.7 Contacts
38.7.1 Policy Owner
Vice President for Gender Equality and Human Resource Development
(VPGEHR)
38.7.2 Other Contacts
HR Management Section
38.8 Definitions

2
ch38_discipline_20161102_en_cl

OIST Graduate University
Policies, Rules & Procedures
Authority:
 Approved by the President
 Act on Securing, Etc. of Equal Opportunity and Treatment between Men and
Women in Employment
 Act on Employment Promotion etc. of Persons with Disabilities
 Act for Securing the Proper Operation of Worker Dispatching Undertakings
and Improved Working Conditions for Dispatched Workers

Chapter 39. Resolving Complaints & Disputes
39.1 Policy for Employees
The OIST Graduate University (University or OIST, as applicable) has procedures
in place that provide employees with the following review processes for resolving
complaints about inappropriate treatment or actions.
39.1.1 For disputes or allegations relating to Respectful Workplace Policy
[link: 1.3.2] violations, every employee is entitled to use the external hotline
to reach OIST-designated outside independent mediators who provide
external consultation and reporting services. Alternatively, every employee
can directly consult the Vice President for Gender Equality and Human
Resource Development (VPGEHR) [link:39.4.3].
39.1.2 Cases where the main issue is academic, scientific, or research
misconduct or non-compliance are managed by the Dean of Faculty Affairs
and the Chief Operating Officer (COO) , in accordance with the procedures
provided for in PRP 23.4.
39.1.3 Conflict of interest issues are managed by the COO in accordance
with the procedures provided for in PRP 22.1.
39.1.4 For all other non-harassment disputes, every employee should
discuss and attempt to solve disputes with the immediate supervisor or Unit,
Section, or Division head. If the issue cannot be resolved within the
Unit/Section/Division, the employee may contact the Vice President for
Gender Equality and Human Resource Development (VPGEHR) for further
steps for resolution, provided, however, that every employee should attempt
to solve disputes in accordance with the procedures provided for in 39.6.1.
39.2 Policy for Students
1
ch39_resolving-complaints-&-disputes_en_20180401_cl

OIST has procedures in place that provide students with systematic review
processes for resolving both non-harassment and harassment issues. Students
should discuss and attempt to resolve disputes with the Dean of the Graduate
School.
39.3 The Ganjuu Wellbeing Service
For students and employees who need advice and counseling, the Ganjuu
Wellbeing Service is available to all OIST community members. The Ganjuu
Wellbeing Service offers consultation, advice, and intervention in relation to a
range of problems including harassment and other behaviors inconsistent with the
OIST Respectful Workplace Policy. Employees can visit Ganjuu Wellbeing Service
during their working hours.
39.4 Anti-Harassment and Anti-Bullying Policy
The University is committed to creating and maintaining a safe and respectful
environment in which all officers, employees, students, and visitors are treated
with dignity and respect, in accordance with the Respectful Workplace Policy [link:
1.3.2]. The University will not tolerate disrespectful communication,
discrimination, harassment, or bullying in any form.
39.4.1 The University will take all disputes and harassment complaints
seriously and handle them in confidence. When a dispute or an act of
harassment is established, the University will take remedial measures and
appropriate corrective actions.
39.4.2 If an OIST officer, employee, student, or exchange visitor feels that
he or she is a victim of, or has witnessed, a violation of the Respectful
Workplace Policy [link: 1.3.2], or feels that he or she is the victim of sexual,
power, academic harassment, or other harassment, that individual should
immediately consider taking action to inform the University of the situation.
39.4.3 To report such disputes or incidents of harassment, employees
should contact either the confidential external Respectful Workplace and
Anti-Harassment hotline (RWAH hotline) [link: 39.6.2.2] or the Vice
President for Gender Equality and Human Resource Development
(VPGEHR) [link: 39.6.2.3].
39.5 The University will not tolerate retaliatory action against any employee or
student for making a good faith report of disputes or incidents of harassment based
on 39.4.2[link: 39.4.2] and 39.4.3[link: 39.4.3] or 39.2[link: 39.2] . Similarly, the
University will not tolerate any direct or indirect use (or attempted use) of official
2
ch39_resolving-complaints-&-disputes_en_20180401_cl

authority or official influence for the purpose of interfering with the rights of a
student or an employee making a protected disclosure.
39.6 Rules
39.6.1 Non-harassment Dispute Resolution Procedures
39.6.1.1 Eligibility. All University employees are eligible to seek
informal and formal non-harassment dispute resolution.
39.6.1.2 Local Informal Problem Resolution
39.6.1.2.1 Employees/students and supervisors are expected
to work effectively to resolve complaints and disputes on other
than harassment issues at the lowest level as possible. An
employee will first seek informal problem resolution with the
supervisor. If the dispute specifically involved the supervisor,
the employee will discuss the problem with the next level of
management.
39.6.1.2.2 The supervisor and higher level manager must
investigate the complaint and take steps to resolve the
problem. A written response must be presented to the
employee. If the employee believes the problem has not been
resolved within the Unit/Section/Division, the next level of
dispute resolution (HR Level Dispute Resolution) is available.
39.6.1.3 HR Level Dispute Resolution
39.6.1.3.1 An Employee who makes a claim (claimant) may
contact the Vice President for Gender Equality and Human
Resource Development (VPGEHR), who first determines
within 5 working days if the claim is appropriately filed, and
informs the
claimant if the claim should be resolved through the
Misconduct (PRP 23) or Conflict-of-Interest (PRP 22)
procedures.
39.6.1.3.1.1 A confidential email box has been set up
to
contact
VPGEHR
to
make
a
claim:
RWAH.HRcontact@oist.jp. VPGEHR or a HR staff
3
ch39_resolving-complaints-&-disputes_en_20180401_cl

designated by VPGEHR will contact the person within
2 working days.
39.6.1.3.2 Once it is determined that the complaint is
appropriately filed, the VPGEHR must facilitate
communication about the dispute between the claimant and
the Unit/Section/Division. The VPGEHR and the
Unit/Section/Division must investigate the problem and take
steps to attempt to resolve the complaint.
39.6.1.3.3 A written response to the dispute must be given to
the claimant by the VPGEHR within 15 working days from the
date the dispute was filed, unless additional time is needed in
which case the claimant must be informed of the expected
date of response.
39.6.1.4 Committee Level Dispute Resolution
39.6.1.4.1 A problem that has not been resolved at the HR level
may be brought to the Committee level. The request must be
submitted in writing by the claimant to the VPGEHR for
review by a Dispute Resolution Committee (DRC).
39.6.1.4.1.1 For each such case, the COO will establish
a DRC consisting of at least 3 members, which may
include external experts. The COO will appoint the
chair.
39.6.1.4.2 The DRC must be formed and convened to review
the dispute within 15 working days after receipt of the written
request. If additional time is needed to convene the DRC, the
15 working days may be extended.
39.6.1.4.3 The DRC must conduct an impartial and
confidential review to determine the facts and circumstances
of the case, and make recommendations to resolve the matter.
In principle, the DRC must make a recommendation within
20 working days from the date the DRC first convenes. If
additional time is needed to complete the review, the period
may be extended for additional 20 working days.

4
ch39_resolving-complaints-&-disputes_en_20180401_cl

39.6.1.4.4 The DRC’s report and the recommendation must be
submitted to the COO. The COO is responsible to determine
the final disposition of the case within 30 working days after
receipt of the DRC’s report and recommendation. If the COO
needs additional time, the period may be extended for
additional 30 working days.
39.6.1.4.5 The decision of the COO become final with
concurrence of the President. Once the final decision has been
implemented, the COO must notify the claimant that the case
is closed. Due to privacy considerations, in some cases, the
claimant may only be notified that the matter has been closed,
without receiving any details of the outcome.
39.6.2 Harassment Resolution Procedures
39.6.2.1 Eligibility. All University employees are eligible to seek
both informal and formal harassment issue resolution. An
employee who makes a claim (claimant) should either seek informal
resolution with the confidential external Respectful Workplace and
Anti-Harassment hotline (RWAH hotline) [link:39.6.2.2] or directly
consult the VPGEHR [link:39.6.2.3.2].
39.6.2.2 RWAH Hotline
The COO establishes the external Respectful Workplace and AntiHarassment hotline.
The RWAH hotline provides a way to seek consultation or to make a
complaint in Japanese or English that is confidential and separate
from the University. The hotline is answered by experienced and
trained professional mediators who can provide consultation, and if
necessary report the matter to the University to seek a resolution of
the situation. The claimant can choose which mediator to contact
within the hotline.
Hotline in English: 080-6495-7196
Hotline in Japanese: 080-6495-7197
Since the mediators of the RWAH hotline may not immediately be
available to answer the call, voice mail is provided, and they will call
back, in general, within 2 working days of the call.
5
ch39_resolving-complaints-&-disputes_en_20180401_cl

The mediators may also be contacted by email at
oistmediators@yahoo.co.jp, which reaches the mediators
exclusively.
Every effort will be made to protect the privacy of claimants using
the RWAH hotline. Claimants can choose to be anonymous or can
identify themselves.
While every effort will be made to keep the consultation process
confidential to respect the claimant’s desire to remain anonymous,
this cannot be guaranteed under all circumstances. If the matter is
sufficiently serious, the mediator may encourage the claimant to give
his/her name and to allow the mediator to report to the COO or the
VPGEHR [link:39.6.2.2.1 c]. In cases where the allegations involve
bodily harm or other illegal action or present the imminent risk to
the safety or health of the claimant or others at the University, the
mediator may immediately inform the COO and the VPGEHR
[link:39.6.2.2.1 d] even without the consent of the claimant.
39.6.2.2.1 Role of the mediators
The ways in which the mediators provide consultation to the
claimant vary from case to case according to the situation. The
basic process is as follows:
a. The mediators will listen to the complaint and discuss with
the claimant how to resolve the problem.
b. The mediator may also mediate the situation depending on
the circumstances. With the consent of the claimant, the
mediator may contact the claimant’s supervisor, the accused,
the
accused’s
supervisor,
or
the
designated
person/section/division, when the mediator considers such
contact to be useful or effective in resolving the situation.
c. If the complaint contains serious allegations which are
deemed to require the University to investigate and take
remedial action, the mediator may urge the claimant to allow
the mediator to report to the Provost, the COO or the
VPGEHR.
d. In cases where the allegations involve bodily harm or other
illegal action (such as an assault, sexual or otherwise) or
present an imminent risk to the safety or health of the
claimant or others at the University, the mediator may
6
ch39_resolving-complaints-&-disputes_en_20180401_cl

immediately inform the COO and VPGEHR even without the
consent of the claimant.
39.6.2.2.2 Follow-up with the claimant: The claimant will, in
principle, be informed by the Mediator of the outcome in cases
described in b, c, d above when and as appropriate. Due to
privacy considerations, in some cases, the claimant may only be
notified that the matter has been closed, without receiving any
details of the outcome.
39.6.2.2.3. Allegations against the President or a Member of the
Executive: In the case of allegations made against the President,
regardless of the nature of the allegations, the mediators will
report directly to the Chair of the Board of Governors of the
University. In the case of allegations made against a Member of
the Executive including Deans, regardless of the nature of the
allegations, the mediators will report directly to the President.
39.6.2.2.4 Record Destruction: The mediators will routinely
destroy their informal notes containing identifying information
pertaining to claimants who contact the mediators and those
involved in resolving matters brought to the mediators. The only
records maintained permanently contain aggregate statistical
trend information.
39.6.2.3 HR-Level Dispute Resolution
39.6.2.3.1 If an employee making a claim (claimant) believes
that the complaint and dispute on harassment issues have not
been resolved through the confidential External Hotline, the
claimant may contact the Vice President for Gender Equality
and Human Resources (VPGEHR). A claimant may directly
contact VPGEHR without going through the External Hotline.
39.6.2.3.1.1 A confidential email box has been set up to
contact
VPGEHR
to
make
a
claim:
[RWAH.HRcontact@oist.jp]. VPGEHR or a HR staff
designated by VPGEHR will contact the person within
2 working days.
39.6.2.3.2 The VPGEHR conducts an initial investigation and
7
ch39_resolving-complaints-&-disputes_en_20180401_cl

attempts to resolve the complaint. This investigation is
carried out informally and confidentially, and in close
consultation with the claimant.
39.6.2.3.3. Issues that cannot be resolved through the
informal process will be forwarded to a Harassment
Investigative Committee (HIC), which will be established and
convened by the VPGEHR within 15 working days after
forwarding the issues, for resolution.
39.6.2.3.4 The HIC consists of 3 members, one of whom is
designated as chair by the VPGEHR, and a legal counsel
appointed by the General Counsel serving as an observer. An
HR staff member provides secretarial support.
39.6.2.3.5 The HIC conducts an impartial and confidential
investigation/ review to determine the facts and
circumstances of the case, and make recommendations to
resolve the matter. In principle, the HIC should prepare a
written response to the VPGEHR within 20 working days
from the date the HIC first convenes. If additional time is
needed, the VPGEHR must be informed of the expected date
of response.
39.6.2.3.6 A written response to the dispute must be given to
the claimant by the VPGEHR within 10 working days from the
date the HIC report was received by the VPGEHR unless
additional time is needed, in which case the claimant must be
informed of the expected date of response. Due to privacy
considerations, in some cases, the claimant may only be
notified that the matter has been closed, without receiving any
details of the outcome.
39.6.2.3.7 Allegations against the President or a Member of
the Executive: In the case of allegations made against the
President, regardless of the nature of the allegations, the
VPGEHR will report directly to the Chair of the Board of
Governors of the University. In the case of allegations made
against a Member of the Executive including Deans,
regardless of the nature of the allegations, the VPGEHR will
report directly to the President.
8
ch39_resolving-complaints-&-disputes_en_20180401_cl

39.6.2.4 Executive Committee Level Harassment Dispute
Resolution
39.6.2.4.1 A problem that has not been resolved at the HR
level may be brought to the Executive Committee level. The
request must be submitted, in writing, by the claimant to the
VPGEHR for review and investigation by a Harassment
Dispute Resolution Committee (HRC).
39.6.2.4.1.1 The COO will appoint at least 3 members
to a HRC for each case. The COO will appoint the HRC
chair. The HRC members may include external experts.
39.6.2.4.2 The HRC must be formed and convened to review
the dispute within 15 working days after receipt of the written
request. If additional time is needed to convene the HRC, the
time may be extended by 15 additional days.
39.6.2.4.3 The HRC must conduct a formal, confidential,
impartial investigation/review to determine the facts and
circumstances of the case. The HRC must make a
recommendation within 20 working days from the date the
HRC first convenes. If additional time is needed to complete
the review, the time period may be extended for additional 20
working days.
39.6.2.4.4 The HRC’s report and the recommendation must
be submitted to the COO. The COO is responsible for the final
disposition of the case within 40 working days after receipt of
the HRC’s report and the recommendation. If the COO needs
additional time, the time period may be extended for
additional 40 days.
39.6.2.4.5 The decision of the COO become final with
concurrence of the President. Once the final decision has been
implemented, the COO must notify in writing the claimant
that the case is closed. Due to privacy considerations, in some
cases, the claimant may only be notified that the matter has
been closed, without receiving any details of the outcome.

9
ch39_resolving-complaints-&-disputes_en_20180401_cl

39.7 Responsibilities
39.7.1 Employees
Employees must attempt to solve disputes in accordance with the
procedures provided in this chapter.
39.7.2 Supervisors and Managers
Supervisors and Managers must inform their subordinates about the
availability of the mediators and the formal and informal complaint and
dispute resolution procedures.
39.7.3 The Vice President for Gender Equality and Human
Resource Development (VPGEHR), the President, the Provost,
the COO, Dispute Resolution Committee (DRC), Harassment
Investigative Committee (HIC), Harassment Dispute Resolution
Committee (HRC), or their Representatives
The Vice President for Gender Equality and Human Resource
Development (VPGEHR), the President, the Provost, the COO, the Dispute
Resolution Committee (DRC), the Harassment Investigative Committee
(HIC), the Harassment Dispute Resolution Committee(HRC) or their
designated representatives, are responsible for performing the tasks and
duties outlined for them in this chapter.
39.7.4 The Mediators of the RWAH hotline
RWAH hotline mediators are responsible for performing the tasks and
duties outlined for them in this chapter.
39.8 Contacts
39.8.1 Policy Owner:
Vice President for Gender Equality and Human Resource Development
(VPGEHR)
39.8.2 Other Contacts:
Mediators of the RWAH hotline
Employee Relation Specialist
39.9 Definitions
39.9.1 Employees
Employees, Fellows, External Researchers, and Personnel from Staff
10
ch39_resolving-complaints-&-disputes_en_20180401_cl

Agencies.
39.9.2 Bullying
Bullying is any ongoing antisocial or unreasonable actions that offends,
degrades, intimidates, or humiliates a reasonable person, and has the
potential to create a risk to health, safety, or wellbeing.
39.9.3 Harassment
Harassment involves continued antisocial or unreasonable actions that
violate a reasonable person’s personal rights and/or dignity and cause
mental suffering, and thus worsen the person’s work environment or make
him/her anxious about employment. Specific examples of harassment
include (but are not limited to) abusive supervision or other abuses of
power in an organizational or academic setting, and are not limited to
actions by supervisors.
39.9.4 Sexual Harassment
Sexual Harassment is harassment of a sexual nature, whether between
individuals of the same or different sexes. The misuse of power in a
manner that has sexual overtones is also considered as Sexual
Harassment.
39.9.5 Academic Harassment
Academic Harassment is the misuse of power or authority by an employee,
student, or faculty member towards another individuals in a research or
educational setting.
39.9.6 Power Harassment
Power Harassment is the misuse of authority, status, or hierarchy by an
employee or faculty member towards another individual, which offends,
degrades, intimidates, or humiliates a reasonable person, and has the
potential to create a risk to health, safety, or wellbeing.

11
ch39_resolving-complaints-&-disputes_en_20180401_cl

OIST Graduate University
Policies, Rules & Procedures
Authority:
 Approved by the President
 Act on Securing, Etc. of Equal Opportunity and Treatment between Men and Women
in Employment
 Act on Improvement, etc. of Employment Management for Part-Time Workers
 Industrial Safety and Health Act
 Public Document Management Act

Chapter 40. Staff Development and Awards
40.1 Policy
The OIST Graduate University recognizes that the success of the University depends on
all employees, whatever their role, having the relevant skills, knowledge and competencies.
The University is committed to providing employees with training opportunities in order
to maintain and improve organizational effectiveness and efficiency, to ensure compliance
with laws, regulations, and University policies, and to keep employees motivated.
40.2 General Considerations
40.2.1 Rationale
The work environment has become increasingly complex and requires continuous
improvement in knowledge, competencies, and skills. At the same time, external
factors, such as changes in laws and regulations, have an impact on OIST Graduate
University policies and how work is done. These changes in job complexity or
external environment require that all those employed at the University have access
to training and a chance to improvement their abilities and gain a shared
understanding of change affecting the University.
40.2.2 Non-discrimination
It is the policy of the University that no employee shall be denied opportunities to
participate in training and development activities on the basis of race, color, religion,
national origin, physical or mental disability, medical condition, marital status,
gender, sexual orientation or age.
40.2.3 Statutory Requirements
There are areas where the University has a legal responsibility to conduct training
for all or related employees, such as research safety and document and record
management. The University will fully comply with the related laws and
1
ch40_staff-development-and-awards_20161102en_cl

regulations and ensure that appropriate training is provided.
40.3 Rules
40.3.1 Types of Training
40.3.1.1 New Employee Orientation
Primary responsibility for successful onboarding lies with the new
employee’s unit or division/section. Human Resources or other part of the
University that provide orientation activities do so in support of the
individual unit’s or division/section’s onboarding process.
40.3.1.1.1 Each newly hired employee is expected to attend an
orientation session organized by the Human Resource training
function.
New employee orientation is a joint effort between the Human
Resource training function and the receiving Unit or Division/Section.
40.3.1.1.2 Orientations for newly hired employees will include
general information about the University, an explanation of its Core
Values [link: 1.3], Code of Conduct [link: 1.4], and Respectful
Workplace Policy [link: 1.3.2], an introduction to the work area, to
fellow employees and job duties, and instruction regarding the
University’s
policies,
rules,
and
procedures
[link:
http://www.oist.jp/ja/policy-library].
The immediate supervisor should provide continuing instruction and
guidance to help the new employee adjust to his/her new work
environment.
40.3.1.1.2.1 The Human Resource training function will provide
guidelines to supervisors on steps and actions to take in order to
facilitate new employee onboarding.
40.3.1.2 Training
40.3.1.2.1 All employees are eligible, with their immediate
supervisor’s approval, to attend the training workshops offered by the
University and applicable to their personal [link: 40.8.5] or

2
ch40_staff-development-and-awards_20161102en_cl

professional [link: 40.8.4] training and development.
40.3.1.2.2 Frequently, educational training and development
programs are offered during an employee’s regularly scheduled
working hours. To the extent that it is possible and practical,
supervisors are encouraged to allow their staff to participate in
relevant programs during those hours. The hours spent for attending
such programs with the supervisor’s approval are counted as working
hours.
40.3.1.2.3 The University may instruct an employee to take specific
or mandatory training [link: 40.8.3]. When such a requirement is
imposed, the employee must take the training unless otherwise
justified and the absence has been approved by leaders in his or her
Unit or Division.
40.3.1.2.4 Analysis of ongoing training needs must be conducted for
each employee by their Section, as well as by the Human Resource
training function to validate existing training programs and identify
any new requirements.
40.3.1.3 Training provided by other parts of the University
40.3.1.3.1 Due to the specificity of content of certain training
programs, other parts of the University may provide training
independent to that provided by the Human Resource training
function. In other instances, the specific training is provided in concert
with or implemented as part of a larger HR program.
40.3.1.3.2 In such cases, as much as possible, the Human Resource
training function will provide advice, support, and assistance to that
part of the University providing the training.
40.3.2 Awards
Details are described in Article 84 [Link: ], Rules of Employment and Article 10.2
[Link: ], Rules of Employment for Part-time Employees.
40.4 Responsibilities
40.4.1 Employees

3
ch40_staff-development-and-awards_20161102en_cl

Employees have primary responsibility for their own personal and professional
development. Employees must develop their skills to enhance performance in their
current position and to prepare them to assume further responsibilities. Employees
are encouraged to use constructively the performance appraisal process and to
engage in daily communication with their supervisor to advance staff development
needs and opportunities.
40.4.2 Supervisors
The role of the supervisor in staff development is to be an advisor or consultant to
an employee’s development. Supervisors must provide employees under their
supervision with opportunities to discuss their staff development needs.
Supervisors should regularly review the development needs of their employees in
order to enable them to respond effectively to internal and external changes.
Whenever appropriate, supervisors should approve attendance at relevant staff
development programs and release employees from their usual duties for such
programs.
Supervisors should also inform the Human Resource training function if they
identify training/development needs that may have organization-wide applicability
and therefore should be added to the staff development programs. The Human
Resource training function will work with Unit or Division/Section leaders as
necessary to develop or access training specific to the needs of the requesting Unit
or Division/Section.
40.4.3 Human Resources
Human Resources is responsible for general University training. That responsibility
resides in the Human Resource training function. The Human Resources will be
responsible for planning and implementing staff development programs to meet the
shared needs of University employees, conducting training needs analysis and
coordinating training and development programs among related Sections and
Divisions.
40.4.3.1 To meet this requirement, the Human Resource training function
will
 periodically conduct training needs and demand surveys.
 plan and implement general / specific training and development
activities.
 coordinate training and development activities with and among
Units or Divisions/Sections.

4
ch40_staff-development-and-awards_20161102en_cl

40.5 Procedures
40.5.1 Application
Employees can apply to a Human Resources provided University training or
development course, workshop or seminar via the HR Training Web site [link: ] or
through the eFRONT Learning Management System [link: ] if the course, workshop,
or seminar is provided through that portal.
40.5.2 Approval
Participation in any training and development program either outside or internal to
the University requires the prior approval of the employee’s supervisor. This
requirement is regardless of whether there are any direct costs such as training fees
or not. Personal training taken outside of work time does not require this approval.
40.6 Forms
40.7 Contacts
40.7.1 Policy Owner:
Vice President for Gender Equality and Human Resource Development
(VPGEHR)
40.7.2 Other Contacts:
HR Development Section
40.8 Definitions
40.8.1 Employee
Employee is defined as someone who has been directly hired by the University.
They can be either permanent or on fixed-term contracts. Part-time employees who
have been hired directly by the University are also considered employees eligible
for training.
Those working at the University sent by a third-party vendor ( 派 遣 社 員 in
Japanese) are not considered employees. They are, however, subject to certain
mandated training programs as designated by the University.
40.8.2 Supervisor
For this chapter, a supervisor is an employee with managerial or supervisorial
responsibilities and duties over an organization or part of an organization with
5
ch40_staff-development-and-awards_20161102en_cl

employees who report to them. This definition includes faculty and officers of the
University, and it covers supervisors who are permanent or on fixed-term contracts.
40.8.3 Mandatory Training
Mandatory Training is any training course, workshop, lecture, online training, video
or audio training that is required by management for an employee to attend.
Mandatory training can be training required of all employees or training focused
upon a specific group or an individual employee. Depending on the requirements
of the University, mandatory training may also be required of those who work here
or provide a service to the University who are not employees.
40.8.4 Professional Training & Development
Professional Training & Development is defined as learning activities engaged in
by employees that directly maintain or improve the current levels of skills,
knowledge, and competencies required to conduct current or future work
requirements. Professional Training & Development can include both formal and
structured learning activities and informal or ad hoc learning activities, either in a
classroom or on the job.
40.8.5 Personal Training & Development
Personal Training & Development is defined as learning activities that do not
necessarily maintain or enhance work related skills, knowledge, and competencies
required to perform a current job. These are learning activities which can help
employees to expand or develop themselves more fully as a person or member of
society.

6
ch40_staff-development-and-awards_20161102en_cl

OIST Graduate University
Policies, Rules & Procedures
Authority:
 Approved by the President
 Labor Standard Act
 Industrial Accident Compensation Insurance Act
 Industrial Safety and Health Act

Chapter 41. Workplace Health and Safety
41.1 Policy
The OIST Graduate University is committed to providing a safe and healthy environment
for its employees. The University offers training, programs, and medical services to
promote the physical and mental health and well-being of its employees. Work areas in
the University are required to be properly ventilated and appropriately lighted, and
employees must be provided with ergonomically correct equipment, tools and furniture. In
addition to taking safety training and complying with safety rules, employees are expected
to be mindful of the need for a nutritious diet, for a good night’s sleep, for daily exercise,
and for periods of relaxation and recreation. The University’s over-arching policies, rules,
and procedures regarding general and job-specific safety training, employee health,
research safety training, disaster preparedness and emergency response are set out in PRP
Chapter 13 [link: 13].
The discussion in this Chapter is limited to health examination and compensation for
employees who have a work-related injury or occupational illness covered by the Industrial
Accident Compensation Insurance Act (Act No. 50 of 1947).
41.2 General Considerations
The
University’s
Safety
and
Health
Management
Policy
[link:
http://rs.oist.jp/rules/docs/industrial-health-andsafety/safety_and_health_management_rules.pdf] complies with the Industrial Safety and
Health Act (Act No. 57 of 1972). In addition, the University has developed its own
requirements regarding employee safety and health; see Chapter 13 [link: 13]
In the event of a work-related injury or occupational illness, employees may be eligible for
coverage of medical and other expenses by the Industrial Accident Compensation
Insurance [link:41.3.2].
41.3 Rules
41.3.1 Health Examination
Details are described in Article 68 [Link: ], Rules of Employment and Article 9.2
1
ch41_workplace-health-and-safety_20161102_en_cl

[Link: ], Rules of Employment for Part-time Employees.
41.3.2 Worker’s Accident Compensation
Details are described in Article 88 [Link: ], Rules of Employment and Article 9.3
[Link: ], Rules of Employment for Part-time Employees.
41.3.2.1 Notwithstanding the rules governing compensation during absence
[link: 34.3.6.7], an employee who is absent from work due to injury or
illness from an accident while at work or commuting as stipulated under the
Industrial Accident Compensation Act will be paid 100 percent of their
daily salary by the University for the first 3 days of the period that the
employee is absent from work.
After the first 3 days, when compensation under the Industrial Accident
Compensation Insurance (Insurance) is less than the amount calculated by
the formula below, the University will pay the difference after the amount
of the Insurance payment has been confirmed.
Formula: Daily Salary [link: 34.3.6.5] multiplied by [the number of
subsequent days the employee is not able to work]
41.3.2.2 Full-time officers are covered by the accident compensation
insurance that the University has arranged. The compensation comprises:
 Survivor’s compensation benefits,
 Residual disabilities benefits,
 Hospitalization benefits,
 Surgery benefits, and
 Outpatient benefits.
41.4 Responsibilities
41.4.1 Employees
Employees are responsible for complying with all laws, regulations, and University
requirements related to workplace health and safety and using their best efforts at
all times to prevent workplace accidents.
41.4.2 The HR Management Section
The HR Management Section is responsible for administering the accident
compensation policy for employees and officers accurately.
41.4.3 The Health Center
The Health Center is responsible for implementing health examination for

2
ch41_workplace-health-and-safety_20161102_en_cl

employees.
41.4.4. The University
The University, as an employer, is responsible for taking necessary measures to
create a safe and healthy workplace environment and to improve the safety and
health of its employees, pursuant to all related laws and regulations (See Chapter
13 [link: 13]).
41.5 Procedures
41.6 Forms
41.7 Contacts
41.7.1 Policy Owner:
Vice President for Gender Equality and Human Resource Development
(VPGEHR)
41.7.2 Other Contacts:
HR Management Section
Health Center
41.8 Definitions

3
ch41_workplace-health-and-safety_20161102_en_cl

